               * Prenatal
                    * Decisions to MakeDelivery and Beyond
               * Baby (0-12 mos.)
                    * Bathing ＆ Skin CareBreastfeedingCrying ＆ ColicDiapers ＆
                      ClothingFormula FeedingNutritionPreemieSleepTeething ＆
--
   [IMG]
   In This Section
   Healthy Children > Safety & Prevention > On The Go > Flying with Baby:
   Parent FAQs
   Safety & Prevention

                         Flying with Baby: Parent FAQs

   Click here to insert a picture from SharePoint. Click here to insert a
--
   By: Claire McCarthy, MD, FAAP & Jennifer Shu, MD, FAAP

   Taking a baby on a plane is something that most parents approach with
   caution. Infants and air travel can both be unpredictable, and they don't
   always mix well. But some advanced planning and preparation can help make
   for a better experience for your baby, for you, and for everyone else on
   the plane.

--
   infant, along with tips for a smoother and safer flight.

When is my baby old enough to fly on an airplane?

   Generally, you should avoid flying with your newborn until they are at
   least 7 days old. Ideally, wait until your baby is two or three months old
   to fly. Air travel (and being in crowded airports) can increase a
   newborn's risk of catching an infectious disease.

Should my baby sit on my lap during the flight?

   Ideally, no. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) doesn't require a
   ticket for children under the age of 2 years. But that means your baby
   will be on your lap. If there is turbulence, or worse, it may not be
   physically possible to protect your baby in your arms. Turbulence is the
   number one cause of children's injuries on an airplane.

   If you do not buy a ticket for your child, you may want to ask if your
   airline will let you use an empty seat where you can install a car seat
   for your baby. If your airline's "lap baby" policy allows this, avoid the
   busiest travel days and times to increase your odds of finding an empty
   seat next to you.

  The safest way for baby to fly

   The safest way for your baby to fly is in a child safety restraint―an
   FAA-approved car seat or airplane harness device. It should be approved
   for your child's age and size, and installed with the airplane's seat
--
   cases they can be checked at the gate, where the risk of damage may be
   lower, at no cost. Consider packing the car seat in a protective bag or
   box. If your baby has their own airplane seat, bring your car seat with
   you.

--
   use in motor vehicles and aircraft."

Which seat on the plane is best for a baby?

     * Look for rows on the plane with more space, like the bulkhead. Exit
--

     * Choose a seat closer to the window, if possible. Aisle seats can be
       risky for babies during beverage service. Hot drinks being passed to
       passengers can spill and cause burns, and their little arms and legs
       can be caught by passing carts. Aisle seats are also closer to falling
--
       they be installed in a window seat.

     * Ensure that your baby's seat is next to you on the plane. Visit the
       U.S. Department of Transportation Airline Family Seating Dashboard for
       tips. It shows which airlines guarantee adjacent seats for children
       under age 13 traveling with an adult at no extra fee.

Is there a way my baby can lie down flat on long flights?

   Buckling your baby into a car seat or safety restraint remains the safest
   option. However, there are other options available to help baby sleep
   comfortably, especially on long-haul flights.

--
       another cabin. In some premium cabins, they can be built into the seat
       compartment to use in bulkhead rows. Most airline bassinets require
       the baby to be under 6 months old and/or 20 pounds, and not yet able
       to sit up unassisted. These bassinets are sometimes called "skycots"
       or baskets.
--

     * Inflatable seat extenders. Some airlines let you bring your own
       inflatable, individual seat extension for your baby to snooze on lying
       down. Not all airlines permit these to be used, though, so check ahead
       of time. Your child will need their own seat to use one.

   Note: For all options above, your baby would still need to be buckled into
   a car seat or held on your lap during takeoff, turbulence and landing.

  Safe sleep practices still apply on the airplane.

     * If your baby sleeps on your lap during the flight: stay alert and
       check on your baby often. Make sure they can breathe easily, and their
       face is uncovered.

     * If your baby sleeps on another device during the flight: check that it
       is firm and flat, with no soft bedding. (See, "How to Keep Your
       Sleeping Baby Safe.")

Will I be able to get liquid formula or expressed breast milk through security?
--
   health problem). Visit the TSA website for more information.

Any tips for keeping my baby comfortable and content on the plane?

     * Dress your baby in layers. The temperature in a plane can vary widely,
       especially if you are stuck waiting on a runway. So, dress your baby
       in layers of clothing. As you pick out clothing, choose outfits that
       make diaper changing in a small space easier. Also, pack a change of
--
     * Be ready for ear pain during take-off and landing. During takeoff and
       landing, changes in pressure between the outer ear and middle ear can
       cause discomfort. If your baby has had ear surgery or an ear infection
       in the past two weeks, ask their doctor if it's OK to fly. Having
       babies drink from the breast or a bottle, or suck on a pacifier, can
       help. If your child has a cold or ear infection, a dose of
       acetaminophen or ibuprofen may help; check with your doctor for the
--
       100 decibels, and is even louder during takeoff. Using cotton balls,
       small earplugs, or noise-canceling headphones may help to decrease the
       decibel level your baby is exposed to, and also make it easier for
       them to sleep or relax.

     * Keep in mind that sleeping babies are easier for everyone. If
       possible, travel at a time when your baby naturally sleeps. Or,
       onsider trying to put off a nap until it's time to fly. Flight delays
       can cause this to backfire if your exhausted baby decides to scream
       instead of sleep. But it may be worth a try.

  Do not use diphenhydramine, or Benadryl, to help your baby sleep without
  talking to your doctor.

--
   medicine by getting more awake instead of sleepy.

     * Consider a diaper change right before boarding the plane. A dry baby
       is a happy baby. Fortunately, when you do need to change a diaper
       in-flight, many planes have restroom changing tables. If yours
       doesn't, ask a flight attendant if there is a spot where you can
       spread out your changing pad. Some parents resort to diaper-changing
       on the closed toilet seat. If you try this, be sure to have a hand on
       your baby at all times and pack a disposable changing pad. Plan for
       delays; pack plenty of supplies.

     * Bring distractions. Pack some toys and books and be ready to play with
       your baby the entire time. A tablet with videos can be a good backup
       if the toys and books aren't helping anymore (we don't encourage
       entertainment media for children under the age of 2, but desperate
--

     * Don't let the glares get to you. Despite the best advanced planning
       and efforts, babies cry sometimes. Know that you did, and are doing,
       all you can. At that point, one of the best ways you can calm your
       baby may be to stay calm yourself. And remember that for every person
       who is glaring at you, there are plenty of people who have been
       through it themselves and have lots of sympathy.
--
     * Ask for help. Arrange for your airline to help you if you need help
       making a connecting flight. Carrying a child safety restraint, your
       baby and luggage through a busy airport can be challenging.

Does my baby need a passport for international travel?

   Yes. All U.S. citizens, including infants, need a current passport to
   travel internationally. Parents or guardians need to apply with their baby
   in person using the form DS-11. Be sure to bring your baby's birth
   certificate and a photo taken within the last 6 months.

   Passport photos must be taken with nobody else in the photo, which can be
   tricky with infants. To do this safely if your baby can't sit up yet, lay
   them on their back on a plain white blanket or sheet to ensure head
   support without having to hold them. Another option is covering a car seat
--
  What about domestic flights?

   A valid passport is usually the only identification your baby will need to
   fly on a domestic flight, unless you need to show proof of age for a
   discounted child fare. Check with your airline before you leave. Note:
   Children under age 18 will not be required to get a Real ID.

What is the best time of day to fly with a baby?

   It is hard to say whether flying during the day or night with a baby is
   better. After the first few weeks, some infants may sleep more reliably at
   nighttime than they do during naptime travel. If you and your baby can
   sleep on the plane, a late-night flight may be the way to go.

