     * Devon

                'If they'd listened, my baby wouldn't have died'

   Tia with dark red hair is sitting in a green soft chair wearing a black
   sleeveless top, looking down at the baby cradled against her chest. The
   back of Arabella's head, wearing a white hat is visible as is part of the
   white and pink blanket that covers her. Tubes can be seen coming from her
--

   Tia with dark red hair sits beside a hospital cot, her tattooed arm
   reaching towards the baby in the middle. Arabella is wearing a nappy, on a
   ventilator and has wires and tubes attached to her. Blaze is stood being
   over looking down at her on the other side of the cot. Medical trolleys
--
   tube on her nose and a monitor pad on her forehead part of a purple and
   pink striped babygrow is visible but she is wrapped in a soft pink blanket
   with stars on it. A woman's hand is holding the baby's hand, it has a
   flower tattoo on one finger and a silver flower ring on the middle
   finger.Image source, Tia
--
   why isn't she here."

   The HSIB report noted local policy guidelines on monitoring the baby's
   heart rate had not been followed.

--
   Megan is wearing a grey hoody and has her blond hair pulled back in a
   messy bus. She is cradling a small newborn in her arms who is lying in a
   white blanket or muslin which has colourful stars on it. The baby has
   various medical wires attached to her and in the foreground part of a
   medical device on a stand can be seen. Megan is sat next to her partner
--
   2023.

   In 2020, following a BBC investigation into baby deaths at the maternity
   unit, then medical director Prof Adrian Harris, who took over the unit in
   2018, said sweeping changes on the ward meant "progress" had been made,
--
   change?"

   Tia added: "They can't keep letting this happen. One baby is bad enough."

   If you have been affected by any of the issues raised in this story you
--
          * Published
            19 September 2024
       Close up image of a newborn baby holding a mother's hand
     * The story behind the largest maternity review in the NHS

--
          * Published
            16 November 2023
       Mother and baby stock image

Related internet links
