   or 25+ lbs

Baby bath basics: A parent's guide

   Wondering how to do a baby bath? Here's a step-by-step guide to help you
   master the basics.

   By Mayo Clinic Staff

   Are you nervous about giving your newborn baby a bath? Bathing a slippery
   baby may feel daunting at first, but with a little practice, you'll start
   to feel more comfortable at bath time. Start by learning baby bath basics.

  How often does my newborn need a bath?

   There's no need to give your newborn baby a bath every day. Three times a
   week might be enough until your baby becomes more mobile. Bathing your
   baby too much can dry out your baby's skin.

   If you're quick and thorough with diaper changes and burp cloths, you're
   already cleaning the parts that need attention — the face, neck and diaper
   area. Between baths, you may also check the folds of your baby's skin,
   including thighs, groin, armpits and chin. If needed, clean these areas
   with a wet washcloth.

  Is it better to bathe my baby in the morning or at night?

   That's up to you. Choose a time when you're not rushed or likely to be
   interrupted. Some parents opt for morning baths, when their babies are
   alert. Others prefer to make baby baths part of a calming bedtime ritual.
   If you bathe your baby after a feeding, consider waiting for your baby's
   tummy to settle a bit first.

--
   The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends sponge baths until the
   umbilical cord stump falls off — which might take a week or two. To give
   your baby a sponge bath, you'll need:

     * A warm place with a flat surface. A bathroom or kitchen counter,
       changing table, or firm bed will work. Even a blanket or towel on the
       floor is OK. Pad hard surfaces with a blanket or towel.
     * A soft blanket, towel or changing pad. Spread it out for your baby to
       lie on.
     * A free hand. Always keep one hand on your baby. On a changing table,
       use the safety strap as well.
     * A sink or shallow basin to hold the water. Run warm water into the
--
       it's not too hot.
     * Essential supplies. Gather a washcloth, a towel — preferably with a
       built-in hood — fragrance-free baby shampoo and soap, baby wipes, a
       clean diaper, and a change of clothes.

   Undress your baby and wrap him or her in a towel. Lay your baby on his or
   her back in the prepared area. To keep your baby warm, only expose the
   parts of your baby's body that you're washing. Wet the washcloth with
   plain, warm water. Then wring out excess water and wipe your baby's face.
   Wipe each eyelid from the inside to the outside corner.

   To clean your baby's body, use a dampened washcloth dipped in plain or
   soapy water. If you use soap, make sure it's mild and moisturizing. Pay
   special attention to creases under the arms, behind the ears, around the
   neck and in the diaper area. Also wash between your baby's fingers and
   toes.

  What type of baby tub is best?

   Once your baby is ready for a bath, you might use a plastic tub or the
   sink. Line the tub or sink with a clean towel. Gather the supplies you'd
   use for a sponge bath, a cup of rinsing water and baby shampoo, if needed,
   ahead of time. This will allow you to keep one hand on the baby at all
   times. Never leave your baby alone in the water.

  How much water should I put in the tub?

   A common recommendation is 2 inches (about 5 centimeters). During bath
   time, always be sure to give your baby undivided attention and hold your
   baby securely. If you forget something you need for the bath, take your
   baby with you. Never leave your baby alone in the tub even for an instant.

  What about water temperature?
--
   Warm water is best. To prevent scalding, set the thermostat on your water
   heater to below 120 F (49 C). Always check the water temperature with your
   hand before bathing your baby. Aim for bath water around 100 F (38 C). Be
   sure the room is comfortably warm, too. A wet baby can be easily chilled.

  What's the best way to hold my newborn in the tub?

   A secure hold will help your baby feel comfortable — and stay safe — in
   the tub. Use your nondominant arm to support your baby's head and neck and
   the other to hold and guide your baby's body into the water, feet first.
   Continue supporting your baby's head and back as needed. You might reach
   behind your baby and hold on to his or her opposite arm throughout the
   bath.

  What should I wash first?

   Most parents start with the baby's head and face and move down to dirtier
   parts of the body. This keeps rinsed areas from getting soapy again.

--

   If your newborn has hair and you think it needs washing, go ahead. With
   your free hand, gently massage a drop of mild baby shampoo into your
   baby's scalp. Rinse the shampoo with a cup of water or a damp washcloth,
   cupping one hand across your baby's forehead to keep suds out of his or
   her eyes.

  Will lotion after a baby bath help prevent rashes?

   Most newborns don't need lotion after a bath. If your baby's skin is very
   dry, apply a small amount of unscented baby moisturizer to the dry areas.
   The massage might make your baby feel good. If dryness continues, you
   might be bathing your baby too often.

    
--
   Feb. 10, 2022
   Show references
    1. Altmann T, et al., eds. Basic infant care. In: Caring for Your Baby
       and Young Child: Birth to Age 5. 7th ed. Bantam; 2019.
    2. Jana LA, et al. Baby bath basics. In: Heading Home with Your Newborn:
       From Birth to Reality. 4th ed. American Academy of Pediatrics; 2020.
       https://shop.aap.org. Accessed Dec. 20, 2021.
    3. Altmann T, et al., eds. Basic infant care. In: Your Baby's First Year.
       5th ed. American Academy of Pediatrics; 2020. https://shop.aap.org.
       Accessed Dec. 20, 2021.
    4. Cook WJ, et al., eds. Bathing and skin care. In: Mayo Clinic Guide to
       Your Baby's First Years: Newborn to Age 3. Mayo Clinic Press; 2020.
    5. How to bathe your newborn. American Academy of Dermatology.
       https://www.aad.org/public/everyday-care/skin-care-basics/care/newborn-bathing.
--
Products and Services

    1. A Book: Mayo Clinic Guide to Your Baby's First Years

See also

    1. Baby poop: What to expect
    2. Baby's head shape: Cause for concern?
    3. Breast milk storage
    4. Breastfeeding and medications
    5. Breastfeeding nutrition: Tips for moms
    6. Crying baby
    7. Newborn feeding basics
    8. Induced lactation
    9. Infant development: Birth to 3 months
   10. Newborn feedings
   11. Pacifiers and your baby
   12. Umbilical cord care: Do's and don'ts for parents
   13. Uncircumcised penis: Is special care needed?
   14. Baby's soft spots
   15. What a newborn really looks like
   Show more related content
--
    2. Infant and toddler health
    3. In-Depth
    4. Baby bath basics A parent s guide

Fund research. Save lives.
