   She's known for hiding references to her personal life in her work, but in
   the case of her latest song, there are more questions than answers. The
   biggest being: Who is Taylor Swift's new song "Babe" about? On Friday, the
   artist released the new track with Sugarland, which heavily hints at
   cheating. Although "new" isn't exactly the right word for it. Because of
--
   to listeners to decide for themselves who she's talking about with lyrics
   like, "Since you admitted it, I keep picturing her lips on your neck, I
   can’t unsee it / I hate that because of you, I can’t love you babe." So
   get out your big magnifying glass like the pop-culture detective that you
   are, and crack this case.

   "Babe" was written by Swift and Patrick Monahan of Train, and the
   Reputation singer is featured in the chorus, but the country duo wasn't
   the track's first stop. ET Canada reported that Swift and Monahan
   initially created the collaboration for the singer's fourth album, Red,
   but that it didn't end up making the cut. And since Red came out in
   October 2012, that helps place "Babe" in time. The singer had released
   Speak Now two years prior, so that gives a small window between the end of
   2010 and probably mid-2012 in which she was likely writing songs for the
--
   whom Billboard claims she dated from October 2011 to January 2012, and
   with Conor Kennedy, whom she was linked to from July to October of 2012.
   It's worth pointing out that with lines like — "You really blew this babe
   / We ain’t getting through this one, babe / This is the last time I’ll
   ever call you, babe" — the lyrics are vague enough that the song could
   easily be about a more universal experience and not Swift's own life.

   However, an interview that Monahan gave to ABC News Radio back in 2013
   seems to suggest that his young collaborator was drawing on something more
   personal for "Babe." As the Train singer told the interviewer:

     "It’s her song; I was just lucky enough to be a part of it with her...
--
   With that statement, which suggests Swift's relationship with Gyllenhaal
   was not necessarily her best, all signs seem to point his way. And indeed,
   fans have speculated that "Babe" is about the Oscar-nominated actor as
   well. When one fan asked her followers who they thought the song was
   about, they were quick to throw out Gyllenhaal's name, indicating what
--
   Obviously there's no confirmation yet, but as you can see, fans are pretty
   confident they've cracked Swift's code on this latest song. They fully
   believe that "Babe" is about Gyllenhaal cheating, and as far as they're
   concerned, the Nightcrawler star may have some 'splainin' to do.

