   ‣ T ‣ U ‣ V ‣ W ‣ Y ‣ Z

                         100 Bible Verses about Babies

  Jeremiah 1:5 ESV / 275 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful
--
  Luke 1:41-44 ESV / 112 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And when Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the baby leaped in her
   womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit, and she exclaimed
   with a loud cry, “Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of
   your womb! And why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should
   come to me? For behold, when the sound of your greeting came to my ears,
   the baby in my womb leaped for joy.

  1 Samuel 1:27 ESV / 97 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful
--
  Luke 2:16 ESV / 90 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph, and the baby lying in
   a manger.

--

   When a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come,
   but when she has delivered the baby, she no longer remembers the anguish,
   for joy that a human being has been born into the world.

--
  Psalm 8:2 ESV / 63 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Out of the mouth of babies and infants, you have established strength
   because of your foes, to still the enemy and the avenger.

--
   her young women walked beside the river. She saw the basket among the
   reeds and sent her servant woman, and she took it. When she opened it, she
   saw the child, and behold, the baby was crying. She took pity on him and
   said, “This is one of the Hebrews' children.” ...

--
  Luke 1:44 ESV / 35 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   For behold, when the sound of your greeting came to my ears, the baby in
   my womb leaped for joy.

--
  Luke 2:12 ESV / 32 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And this will be a sign for you: you will find a baby wrapped in swaddling
   cloths and lying in a manger.”

--
   David!” they were indignant, and they said to him, “Do you hear what these
   are saying?” And Jesus said to them, “Yes; have you never read, “‘Out of
   the mouth of infants and nursing babies you have prepared praise’?”

  Proverbs 22:15 ESV / 20 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful
