Infant development: Milestones from 7 to 9 months

   It might surprise you how quickly your baby is picking up new skills.
   Infant development milestones for a 7- to 9-month-old include sitting,
   standing and laughing.
--
   By Mayo Clinic Staff

   As your baby becomes more mobile and curious, infant development takes
   off. It might seem that your baby learns something new every day.
   Understand these next milestones and what you can do to promote your
   baby's growth.

  What to expect

   Babies grow and develop at their own pace. From ages 7 to 9 months, your
   baby is likely to experience:

     * Advancing motor skills. By this age, most babies can roll over in both
       directions even in their sleep. Most babies also can sit on their own,
       while others need a little support. You might notice your baby
       beginning to scoot, rock back and forth, or even crawl across the
       room. Some babies this age can pull themselves to a standing position.
       Soon your baby might take some steps while holding the edge of a couch
       or low table.
     * Improved hand-eye coordination. Most babies this age move objects from
       one hand to another or directly to their mouths. Pulling objects
       closer with a raking motion of the hands will give way to more-refined
       movements, such as picking up objects with just the thumb and
       forefinger. These skills will help your baby handle a spoon and soft
       finger foods.
     * Evolving communication. Babies communicate through sounds, gestures
       and facial expressions. You'll probably hear plenty of laughing and
       squealing. Some babies might repeat the sounds they hear — or give it
       their best shot. Your baby's babbling is likely to include chains of
       sounds, such as "ba-ba-ba." You might even pick out an occasional
       "mama" or "dada."
     * Stranger anxiety. Many babies this age become wary of strangers. Your
       baby might resist staying with anyone other than you. If your baby
       fusses when you leave, the excitement of a new toy or event might
       provide a distraction. Your baby will likely stop crying as soon as
       you're out of sight.
     * Teething. Babies start getting teeth during this time. But teeth may
       come in later too. You might notice your baby drooling more than usual
       and chewing on just about anything. Try gently rubbing the gums with
       one of your fingers or offer a rubber teething ring. Avoid teething
       gels or other medications. When your baby's first teeth appear, use a
       soft-bristled toothbrush to clean them. Until your child learns to
       spit, at about age 3, use a smear of fluoride toothpaste no bigger
       than the size of a grain of rice.

  Promoting your baby's development

   For babies of any age, learning and play are inseparable. To support your
   budding adventurer:

     * Create an exploration-safe environment. Keep only safe objects within
       your baby's reach. Move anything that could be poisonous, pose a
       choking hazard or break into small pieces. Cover electrical outlets
       and use stairway gates. Gates between rooms can help keep your
       fast-moving baby in safe areas too. Place cords from blinds or shades
       out of reach. Install child locks on doors and cabinets. If you have
       furniture with sharp edges, remove it from rooms where your baby
       plays. The same goes for lightweight objects your baby can use to pull
       up into a standing position, such as plant stands, small tables,
       potted trees and floor lamps. Anchor bookcases, televisions and their
       stands to the wall.
     * Keep chatting. You've likely been talking to your baby all along. Keep
       it up! Describe what you're doing, and give your baby time to reply.
       After you say something, wait for your baby to repeat the sounds. Sing
       simple songs. Ask your baby questions that involve more than a yes or
       no response. You might not be able to pick words from your baby's
       babble, but you can encourage a back-and-forth conversation.
     * Teach cause and effect. Push the button on a musical toy and dance to
       the tune. Open the door on a toy barn and listen to the cow say "moo."
       Help your baby do the same. Self-confidence will grow as your baby
       realizes how to make things happen.
     * Take time to play. By now, you and your baby might be very good at
       games you've been playing, such as peekaboo, patty-cake and itsy-bitsy
       spider. Get creative. Arrange cushions and pillows on a carpeted floor
       and encourage your baby to creep or crawl over them. Stack blocks and
       invite your baby to knock them down. At bath time, provide small
       containers and plastic utensils for pouring and mixing.
     * Pull out the books. Set aside time for reading every day — even if
       it's only a few minutes. Reading aloud is one of the simplest ways to
       boost your baby's language development. Make it more interesting with
       facial expressions, sound effects and voices for various characters.
       Store books within easy reach so that your baby can explore them
       whenever the mood strikes.

  When something's not right

   Your baby might reach some developmental milestones ahead of schedule and
   lag behind a bit on others. This is common. It's a good idea, however, to
   be aware of the signs or symptoms of a problem.

   Consult your baby's health care provider if you're concerned about your
   baby's development or if by the end of month nine your baby:

     * Does not make eye contact or respond to their name.
--
   Dec. 22, 2022
   Show references
    1. Altmann T, et al., eds. Caring for Your Baby and Young Child: Birth to
       Age 5. 7th ed. Bantam; 2019. https://shop.aap.org. Accessed Aug. 9,
       2022.
    2. Altmann T, et al., eds. Your Baby's First Year. 5th ed. American
       Academy of Pediatrics; 2020. https://shop.aap.org. Accessed Aug. 9,
       2022.
    3. Cook WJ, et al., eds. Mayo Clinic Guide to Your Baby's First Years:
       Newborn to Age 3. Mayo Clinic Press; 2020.
   See more In-depth
--
Products and Services

    1. A Book: Mayo Clinic Guide to Your Baby's First Years

See also

    1. Air travel with infant
    2. Baby fat
    3. Baby naps
    4. Baby poop: What to expect
    5. Birthmarks
    6. Breastfeeding and alcohol
--
    9. Breastfeeding positions
   10. Breastfeeding strike
   11. Common baby rashes
   12. Crying baby
   13. Baby sleep
   14. Infant constipation
   15. Infant development: Milestones from 10 to 12 months
--
   17. Infant formula preparation
   18. Infant growth rates
   19. Sick baby?
   20. Babies and solid foods
   21. Spitting up in babies
   22. Teething: Tips for soothing sore gums
   23. Vitamin D for babies
   Show more related content
   Advertisement
