          * Health
          * Post Pregnancy
     * Baby
          * Breastfeeding
          * Food
--
          * Safety
          * Play & Activities
     * Baby Names
     * Toddler
          * Development
--
     * Shopping
     * Tools
          * Baby Eye Color Calculator
          * Online Pregnancy Test
          * Chinese Gender Predictor
--
          * Breast Milk Calculator
          * Child Growth Percentile Calculator
          * Baby Cost Calculator
          * BMI Calculator For Kids & Teens
          * Contraction Calculator
--
          * Nakshatra Calculator
          * Diaper Bag Checklist
          * Baby Name Combiner

   Home • Baby • Health

             10 Signs Of Concussion In Babies, Causes And Treatment

   Identify the symptoms of brain injury to ensure prompt medical assistance.
--

   Edited by Rohit Garoo, BSc, MBA Rohit Garoo rohit garooBSc, MBA Follow
   MomJunction on Linkedin Specialty: Baby Health and WellnessExperience: 9
   years

--
   incongruencies, feel free to write to us.

   Concussion In Babies

   Image: Shutterstock

   A concussion in babies is a head injury that may affect their brain
   functioning, which may lead to various physical and cognitive symptoms.
   Before a baby arrives, most parents take all the necessary precautions to
   ensure their little one’s safety, such as baby-proofing their homes.
   However, despite all their efforts, their babies may suffer minor
   injuries. Though minor injuries cause short-term pains and often resolve
   over time, concussions could affect their growth and developmental
--

   Altogether, one must follow important safety measures, such as keeping the
   floor dry and devoid of things that could make a baby fall. This could
   help control falls and head injuries in babies and prevent the
   consequences of an infant concussion.

   In this post, we discuss the causes, complications, and other important
   details of concussions in babies and some tips to avoid them.

   In This Article
     * Key Pointers
     * What Is A Concussion?
     * Signs And Symptoms Of Concussion In Babies
     * What Causes A Concussion In Babies?
     * How Is Concussion In Babies Diagnosed?
     * How Is Concussion In Babies Treated?
     * What Are The Long-Term Effects Of Concussion In Infants?
     * How To Prevent Concussions In Babies?
     * Frequently Asked Questions
     * Infographic: Myths About Concussion: Debunked
--
       seek prompt treatment from a pediatrician to avoid brain-related
       complications.
     * Parents can help prevent concussions in infants by baby-proofing their
       homes, using baby cribs, and car seats.

What Is A Concussion?
--

   But in some cases, a concussion or infant head injury might disrupt normal
   brain activity and make the baby unconscious. The Harvard Medical School
   grades concussion on three scales of severity described below (2):

--

   As a concussion may be severe, you need to be alert and look out for the
   signs of concussion in a baby.

   A National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) report evaluated the percentage
--
   Source: Erectile dysfunction: Frequently asked questions; NHS

Signs And Symptoms Of Concussion In Babies

   Babies may seem confused or are unable to understand instructions
   Image: Shutterstock

--
   brain might get affected, but without any prominent marks on the skull
   (3). Thus, the signs of traumatic brain injury in infants are subtle, and
   parents may find it difficult to understand if the baby has had a
   concussion.

--
   look out for these:

    1. Loss of consciousness: The baby could become unconscious or slip into
       semi-consciousness due to the injury to the neurons, affecting normal
       brain function.
    2. Dizziness or body balance issues: Babies might lose balance while
       walking or crawling, indicating poor coordination in body movements.
    3. Dazed, confused, and slurred speech: The baby is unable to understand
       instructions and seems unresponsive. Older infants, who can talk will
       have trouble forming sentences and may not speak clearly.
    4. Abrupt loss of interest: The baby does not enjoy the toys, games, and
       activities, and tends to stay calm and silent most of the time.
    5. Crying excessively: A concussion could be like a dull pain, making the
       baby cry, irritable, and cranky.
    6. Vomiting and nausea: The baby is unable to digest anything and throws
       up whatever they are fed. Toddlers and older babies may complain about
       feeling sick in the stomach.
    7. Sudden change in daily routine: There is a sudden change in eating,
       sleeping, and diaper soiling patterns.
    8. Bleeding or fluid oozing from nose or ears: Blood from nose or ears
       indicates damaged blood vessels. If the baby does not have a cold but
       has a clear fluid dripping from the nose, then it could be the
       cerebrospinal fluid^iA clear, watery fluid that flows in the empty
       spaces around the brain and spinal cord. , which is leaking through
       the skull and out through the nose.
    9. Seizures: Seizures in babies include fits, convulsions^iRapid and
       involuntary muscle contractions that lead to rapid and rhythmic
       shaking of the body, especially limbs. , and episodes of loud crying
       with violent body movement.
   10. Stiffness or droopiness: The baby’s body seems stiff or droopy. The
       limbs could appear to be fixed or moving around involuntarily.

--
   newborns to avoid complications.

What Causes A Concussion In Babies?

   Babies may fall while hopping or running and hurt themselves
   Image: Shutterstock

--
   children, as they have rudimentary reflexes and cannot protect themselves.

    1. Having a fall: Babies falling from the bed, having tripped on an
       object, or falling while hopping or running, could hurt themselves and
       cry loudly. If the child is older, they would call out a parent. In
       such a case, check for bruises or lacerations as they may suggest a
       pediatric concussion. Babies can also fall from other high platforms
       like a small chair or sofa and hurt themselves.

--
   that her son might have a fall-induced concussion (i).

    2. When an object falls on the head: A baby could playfully yank the wire
       of a table lamp, or an older infant could shake a big object, making
       it fall on their head.
    3. Baby hits the head to an object: Babies can hit their head to an
       object while crawling or walking. For example, older infants who crawl
       at a faster pace may not notice objects in front of them or walk
       head-first into something.
    4. Vehicle accident: Babies are at a greater risk of head injuries in car
       crashes because their heads are larger in proportion to their bodies
       (6). They can also sustain a concussion due to a fall from a
--

   As you may have noticed, simple, everyday activities can be a cause for
   concussion in babies. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends, as a
   safety measure, that you take your baby to a doctor if there is any injury
   to the head and to check for post-concussion syndrome in babies.

How Is Concussion In Babies Diagnosed?

   Doctors check for signs of brain trauma such as a bruise or swelling on
--

   Only a medical practitioner can make a conclusive diagnosis and tell if
   the baby has a concussion or an intracranial hemorrhage. Here is how the
   condition diagnosed:

--
     * Injured blood vessels rupture internally and bleed, which is seen on
       the skin as a blue-black patch (bruises).
     * In severe concussions, the baby may develop blue or black skin
       discolorations around the eyes or behind the ears.
     * An unbalanced dilation of the pupils may occur, where one eye is
--
       tests these skills to determine the damage.
     * In the case of suspected malfunctioning, the doctor could conduct
       basic tests to discern if the baby’s vision and hearing are affected.
       For this, the doctor would check the movement of the baby’s head in
       response to a sound or baby’s ability to spot a moving object in
       peripheral vision.
     * In the case of older infants, the doctor would ask the infant to touch
--
       infant skull fracture.
     * Scans such as CT and MRI can be conducted in more severe cases as they
       provide a three-dimensional image of the baby’s skull.

   Once the doctor confirms the concussion, the treatment begins immediately.

How Is Concussion In Babies Treated?

   Keep babies from vigorous physical activities as the brain needs rest
   Image: Shutterstock

--

     * Rest: Rest is the most important treatment since it is non-invasive,
       baby-safe, and also ideal for a non-open wound condition, such as a
       concussion (7). The doctor would advise you to keep the baby away from
       vigorous physical activities involving cognitive skills as the brain
       needs rest.
     * Topical ointment: If the baby has a bruise or small wound at the point
       of impact, then the doctor could prescribe a topical ointment
       primarily to prevent infection and alleviate the pain.
   protip_icon Quick tip
   Your baby should play quietly for at least 24 hours after the injury and
   screen time should be limited (13).

   Some home remedies for pain, such as an ice pack might help the infant
   feel better, but do not force it if the baby is not comfortable with the
   cold sensation.

--

    1. Loss of developmental milestones: If the injury alters the brain motor
       skills, the baby might lose out on some achieved milestones. An infant
       may reach a milestone, only to forget it in a few days. You may notice
       a complete regression in skills and abilities.
    2. Permanent problems while feeding or sleeping: The baby is unable to
       sleep or eat properly and has a changed regime. In severe cases of
       trauma, the infant may develop insomnia, which is an inability to fall
--
       severe or blunt injury to the head or neck. (9).
    4. Pause in head circumference growth: Some cases of severe concussion
       could pause the growth in the baby’s head circumference for a few
       weeks (10). The head growth resumes weeks later, but head growth could
       lag in comparison to the rest of the body.
--
       concentrating, and decision-making. and intellectual disabilities.

   Pediatricians may suggest regular check-ups to track the baby’s recovery
   and ensure they are reaching developmental milestones. Parents should
   watch for any ongoing symptoms and keep open communication with healthcare
--
   concussions.

How To Prevent Concussions In Babies?

   You can mitigate the risk of concussions or mild traumatic brain injury in
   infants by keeping your baby safe at home.

   Here are a few precautions you can take (11):

    1. Baby-proof your house: Tie the wires high above and remove elevated
       objects that can cause injury when they fall over the head. Cover all
       the sharp edges of furniture and remove items such as a carpet or
       doormat that the baby could trip on.
    2. Never leave an infant unattended: Babies tend to be fidgety and love
       to hold and move things, but it must be under adult supervision. Older
       infants should also play under adult supervision, especially while
--
       can greatly lower the risk of head injuries by closely supervising
       their children and creating safe play areas.
   Babies love to hold and move things, so they must be under adult
   supervision
   Image: iStock
    3. Get a crib for the baby: Babies must sleep in cribs that are
       specifically designed for their age. Do not let your baby sleep alone
       on regular beds, as babies tend to roll off the edges.
   protip_icon Point to consider
   Install changing tables with 2-inch guardrails to avoid accidental falls
   (14).
    4. Get baby car seat: Buy an infant safety harness for your baby when
       traveling in a car, even for short distances. Choose safety harnesses
       certified by reputable agencies or organizations. Choose a five-point
--
       to the seat at five points and has two shoulder points, two hip
       points, and one between the legs. The three-point harness leaves out
       the two hip points. Babies should be latched facing the rear of the
       car as it prevents a sharp shock to the neck and head in case of a
       forward collision.
   protip_icon Quick tip
   You may use Baby head protection accessories that are available to protect
   them from bumps and bruises.

Frequently Asked Questions

   1. For how long should you keep the baby awake after they hit their head?

   You can let your baby sleep if they wish to after hitting their head.
   Nevertheless, keep them near to you. Wake them up after two hours to know
   if they are alert and active (12). Call medical services if you cannot
--

   You should get your child examined by a doctor if you have the slightest
   doubt because babies cannot verbalize how they feel. You should visit the
   doctor if you find them uncomfortable or less active than usual.

   3. How to know if my baby is okay after they fall off the couch?

   Remain calm and observe the baby’s behavior. If they are alert and crying
   loudly, it is a normal reaction. In such cases, gently pick the baby and
   console them (15). Take care of minor injuries and try to lighten their
   mood. However, if they vomit, show signs of extreme sleepiness, or there
   is blood discharge from the ears or nose, promptly contact a doctor.

   4. Can my baby get a concussion from falling backwards?

   It is rare to get a concussion by banging their head against a wall,
   hitting their head on their crib, or falling backward from a standing
   position (16) (18). However, prompt pediatric evaluation is necessary if
   your baby has anything more than a light bump in the affected area or if
   you notice other signs of concussion in a baby, such as vomiting,
   dizziness, or stumbling (19).

   5. Can my baby get brain damage if they fall?

   In children less than six years of age, a fall from a great height, such
--
   cause brain damage (18).

   A baby concussion is a brain injury that can be assessed on three severity
   scales. While most concussions are grade 1 or 2, if your infant sustains a
   grade 3 injury, it may impact their brain functioning as well as their
   growth and development. Blood from the nose or ears, excessive crying,
   vomiting, dizziness, and other symptoms may develop. Thus, if the baby has
   recently suffered a head injury, it is advisable to have them inspected by
   a doctor. Moreover, taking simple precautions such as baby-proofing the
   house, using a baby car seat, and a crib could effectively prevent
   concussions in babies.

Infographic: Myths About Concussion: Debunked

   Witnessing concussions in babies is a scary event. Moreover, with the
   plethora of myths surrounding concussions, you may end up making more
   mistakes than taking the necessary steps to care for the child. Check this
   infographic where we bust the most common myths surrounding concussions in
   babies.
   common myths about concussion (infographic)

--
   9. Fife TD and Giza C; Posttraumatic vertigo and dizziness; National
   Center For Biotechnology Information (2013)
   10. Concussion Symptoms in Children & Babies; Brainline
   11. Preventing head injuries in children; Medline Plus; U.S National
   Library of Medicine
--
   14. Household Safety: Preventing Injuries From Falling, Climbing, and
   Grabbing; Nemours Children’s Health
   15. How to Help Babies and Toddlers When They Fall?; Pathways
   16. Spotting Concussions in Babies and Toddlers; UNC Health Talk
   17. Juliet Haarbauer-Krupa, Tadesse Haileyesus, Julie Gilchrist, Karin A.
   Mack, Caitlin S. Law, and Andrew Joseph; Fall-related traumatic brain
--
   Read full bio of Vidya Tadapatri
   Related Articles
     * Concussion In Babies
       6 Causes Of Watery Eyes In Babies, Treatment And Remedies
     * Concussion In Babies
       Acrocyanosis In Newborn: Causes, Symptoms And Treatment
     * Concussion In Babies
       Umbilical Granuloma In Babies: Causes, Treatment, And Care
     * Concussion In Babies
       Iron Deficiency Anemia In Babies: 5 Causes And 9 Symptoms
     * Concussion In Babies
       Urate Crystals In Baby's Diaper: Causes And Prevention
     * Concussion In Babies
       7 Benefits Of Breast Milk Bath For Babies And How To Do It
     * Concussion In Babies
       Infant Tylenol: Recommended Dosage And Safety
     * Concussion In Babies
       17 Causes Of Nausea In Children, Treatment And Home Remedies
     * Concussion In Babies
       11 Reasons Why Baby Refuses To Eat And How To Help Them
   Latest Articles
     * Signs Of Infant Skull Fracture
       Infant Skull Fracture: Types, Signs, Diagnosis, And Treatment
     * A person checking a baby
       Low Temperature In Babies: Causes, Treatment & When To Worry
     * Causes Of Silent Reflux In Babies
       Silent Reflux In Babies: Signs, Causes, Remedies & Treatment
     * Cold During Pregnancy - Causes, Symptoms, Treatments & Prevention
       Cold During Pregnancy: Causes, Symptoms, Treatments And Prevention
     * Vaginal Dryness During Pregnancy
       Vaginal Dryness During Pregnancy: Causes, Symptoms And Treatment
     * Baby With Dry Scalp And Home Remedies
       Baby Dry Scalp: Causes, Home Remedies And Treatment 
     * A woman is suffering from hypokalemia during pregnancy
       Low Potassium (Hypokalemia) In Pregnancy: Causes & Treatment
     * Top Gynecologists In Delhi
       15 Best Gynecologists In Delhi In 2025
     * Baby Suffering From Dravet Syndrome
       Dravet Syndrome In Babies: Causes, Symptoms And Treatment
     * Is It Normal To Dream During The First Trimester?
       Is It Normal To Dream During The First Trimester?
     * Baby belly button bleeding
       Newborn Belly Button Bleeding: What’s Normal & When To Worry
     * A Mother Feeding Breastmilk
       Baby Choking On Breastmilk: Why Does It Happen & What To Do?
     * About Us
     * Advertise with Us
