       [ Submit ] Pregnancy
          * Pregnancy Week-by-Week
          * Baby Names
          * Due Date Calculator
          * Pregnancy Conditions & Complications
          * Labor & Delivery
          * View All
     * Baby Names 
       [ Submit ] Baby Names
          * Top Girl Names
          * Top Boy Names
--
     * Parenting 
       [ Submit ] Parenting
          * Babies
          * Toddlers
          * Big Kids
--
       [ Submit ] What to Buy
          * Toys & Gifts for Every Age and Occasion
          * Baby & Toddler Gear
          * Pregnancy Gear
          * Clothes, Shoes & Accessories for the Whole Family
--
     * Pregnancy
          * Pregnancy Week-by-Week
          * Baby Names
          * Due Date Calculator
          * Pregnancy Conditions & Complications
          * Labor & Delivery
          * View All
     * Baby Names
          * Top Girl Names
          * Top Boy Names
--
          * View All
     * Parenting
          * Babies
          * Toddlers
          * Big Kids
--
   IFrame
     * Parenting 
     * Babies & Newborns

                             First Year Development

   Your baby's physical development is a thing of beauty and a source of
   pride. From sitting to crawling, walking to talking, smiling to laughing,
   each achievement is a developmental milestone. Learn what to expect next
   in your baby's physical and intellectual development.
     * 4-12 Months
     * 0-3 Months
     * *  * parent clapping with baby parent clapping with baby
   When Do Babies Start Clapping?
   baby learning to crawl baby learning to crawl
   How to Help Your Baby Crawl
   babies at various milestones babies at various milestones
   A Week-by-Week Guide to Your Baby's First Year Milestones
   Average Baby Weights During the First Year Average Baby Weights During the
   First Year
   Tracking Your Baby's Growth: Month-by-Month Charts for Average Weight and
   Length
   Baby laying on bed Baby laying on bed
   3-Month-Old Baby Sparks Discussion About Echolalia—Experts Weigh In
   Photo illustration of baby crying Photo illustration of baby crying
   Why Is My Baby Always Fussy in the Evenings?
   Baby in crib Baby in crib
   ‘Fully Conscious' Baby Goes Viral but Is Her Reaction Unusual?
   Baby's First Week Baby's First Week
   Your 1-Week-Old Baby’s Milestones and Development
   The stay-at-home dad spends time during the day to play with his baby
   girl. The stay-at-home dad spends time during the day to play with his
   baby girl.
   When Do Babies Start Babbling?
   4-week-old baby development 4-week-old baby development
   Your 1-Month-Old Baby’s Milestones & Development
   3-week-old baby growth and development 3-week-old baby growth and
   development
   Your 3-Week-Old Baby’s Milestones & Development
   5 Week Old Baby Development 5 Week Old Baby Development
   A Guide to Your 5-Week-Old Baby's Development
   10-Month-Old Baby 10-Month-Old Baby
   Your 10-Month-Old Baby's Development and Milestones
   6-Month-Old Baby 6-Month-Old Baby
   Your 6-Month-Old Baby’s Development and Milestones
   5-Month-Old Baby 5-Month-Old Baby
   Your 5-Month-Old Baby's Milestones and Development
   6-Week-Old Baby 6-Week-Old Baby
   Your 6-Week-Old Baby’s Milestones and Development
   7 week old baby 7 week old baby
   Your 7-Week-Old Baby’s Milestones and Development
   Father feeding his baby son and he is enjoying the delicious vegetable
   puree. Father feeding his baby son and he is enjoying the delicious
   vegetable puree.
   When Your Baby Is Ready to Use a High Chair
   Baby sitting on bed and smiling with mom Baby sitting on bed and smiling
   with mom
   When Do Babies Recognize Their Name?
   mother kissing her baby on the head mother kissing her baby on the head
   What to Know About the Rooting Reflex in Babies
   Newborn baby laying in hospital basinet with their eyes open Newborn baby
   laying in hospital basinet with their eyes open
   Is It True That All Babies Are Born with Blue Eyes?
   Insemination, 3D Rendering Insemination, 3D Rendering
   What Is a Zygote?
   Baby crying Baby crying
   Terrifying TikTok Shows Baby in a Breath-holding Spell
   baby being fed baby being fed
   When Do Babies Have Growth Spurts?
   baby snuggled against mom baby snuggled against mom
   Snuggling Your Baby May Affect Their DNA, Study Says
   toddler looking at television toddler looking at television
   Is Listening to the TV Helpful or Harmful for a Baby?
   Father Encouraging Baby Daughter To Take First Steps At Home Father
   Encouraging Baby Daughter To Take First Steps At Home
   Gross Motor Skills in Babies, Toddlers, and Preschoolers
   Baby walking with parent Baby walking with parent
   Could Babies Who Walk Early Be Destined For Success?
   An image of a baby's feet in grass. An image of a baby's feet in grass.
   These Cute Videos Show Why Babies Avoid Grass
   Parent teaching child sign language Parent teaching child sign language
   How To Teach Your Baby Sign Language
   dad holding happy baby and bonding dad holding happy baby and bonding
   The Age-by-Age Guide to Bonding with Your Baby
   An image of a baby laughing. An image of a baby laughing.
   Babies Start To Develop a Sense of Humor as Early as 1 Month, Study Shows
   baby touching parent's chin baby touching parent's chin
   What Do My Baby's Sounds Mean?
   child talking with baby sibling child talking with baby sibling
   A Month-By-Month Guide to Your Baby's First Words
   woman talking to child holding hands woman talking to child holding hands
   7 Ways to Help Your Child's Language Development
   mom reading to baby mom reading to baby
   Age-by-Age Guide to Reading to Your Baby
   Cute little baby boy, playing with abacus at home Cute little baby boy,
   playing with abacus at home
   6 Things You May Not Know Your Baby Can Do
   mother playing with baby on changing table mother playing with baby on
   changing table
   50 Simple Ways to Make Your Baby Smarter
   babies babies
   Is Your Baby a Late Bloomer?
   A pediatrician holding a baby and smiling while the baby looks at the
   mother in the foreground with her back to the camera A pediatrician
   holding a baby and smiling while the baby looks at the mother in the
   foreground with her back to the camera
   How to Read Height and Weight Percentiles On a Baby Growth Chart
   Asian Mother Holding Baby Pulling on Shirt Illustration Asian Mother
   Holding Baby Pulling on Shirt Illustration
   5 Ways to Handle Your Baby Pulling, Tugging, and Pinching You
   Afro Mom and baby Afro Mom and baby
   The Sweetest Baby Milestones and When to Expect Them
   An image of a mother and her baby. An image of a mother and her baby.
   13 Ways Your Baby Shows They Love and Trust You
   baby in high chair baby in high chair
   8 Sometimes Frustrating Phases of Baby Development
   baby standing with help of a bench baby standing with help of a bench
   6 Weird Baby Behaviors Explained
   mother holding her daughter in the air mother holding her daughter in the
   air
   How Your Baby Learns to Love
   small baby lying on bed small baby lying on bed
   7 Ways to Decode Your Baby's Body Language
   Baby Monthly Milestones Baby Monthly Milestones
   First Year Baby Milestones by Month
   Pediatrician Measuring Baby Weight on Scale Pediatrician Measuring Baby
   Weight on Scale
   What to Know About Infant Growth Charts
   Father lifting up and smiling at infant Father lifting up and smiling at
   infant
   11 Expert-Recommended Infant Activities for Babies Up to 6 Months Old
   Baby stands at play station Baby stands at play station
   A Step-by-Step Guide to Baby's Motor Development
   baby motor skills baby motor skills
   All About Your Baby's Fine Motor Skill Development
   Sitting Mother Holding Newborn Baby Head Hair Sitting Mother Holding
   Newborn Baby Head Hair
   How to Understand Infant Growth Charts
   mom teaching baby sign language mom teaching baby sign language
   How to Sign 50 Words in Baby Sign Language
   African girl crying and reaching upward African girl crying and reaching
   upward
   How To Handle Separation Anxiety in Babies
   Baby's First Year Journey Baby's First Year Journey
   Welcome to Your Baby’s First Year
   toddler with tablet sitting in front of jumble of letters toddler with
   tablet sitting in front of jumble of letters
   Do Tech Toys Hurt Baby's Language Development?
   Playing With Baby: Tummy Time Playing With Baby: Tummy Time
   How To Play With Your Baby
   How Much Weight Should My Baby Gain Each Month?_still.jpg How Much Weight
   Should My Baby Gain Each Month?_still.jpg
   How Much Weight Should My Baby Gain Each Month?
   baby chewing on hands baby chewing on hands
   Why Babies Suck and Chew on Their Hands
   baby in high chair baby in high chair
   Everything You Need for Your Baby at 6-9 Months
   illustration of baby, 9 month old text illustration of baby, 9 month old
   text
   Your 9-Month-Old Baby’s Milestones and Development
   illustration of baby, 11 month old text illustration of baby, 11 month old
   text
   Your 11-Month-Old Baby’s Milestones and Development
   Parents
   Newsletters
--
     * *  *  *  *  * * Starting a Family
     * Pregnancy
     * Baby Names
     * Parenting
     * Life With Kids
