   Link: canonical
   Link: amphtml
   Link: alternate x-default
   Link: alternate en-gb
   Link: alternate en
   BBC Homepage
     * Skip to content
     * Accessibility Help
     * Your account
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * Culture
     * Future
     * Music
     * TV
     * Weather
     * Sounds
     * More menu
   More menu
   Search BBC
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * Culture
     * Future
     * Music
     * TV
     * Weather
     * Sounds
   Close menu
   BBC News
   Menu
     * Home
     * Israel-Gaza war
     * War in Ukraine
     * Climate
     * Video
     * World
     * UK
     * Business
     * Tech
     * Science
   More
     * Entertainment & Arts
     * Health
     * World News TV
     * In Pictures
     * BBC Verify
     * Newsbeat
     * England
     * Regions
     * Devon

                'If they'd listened, my baby wouldn't have died'

   Tia with dark red hair is sitting in a green soft chair wearing a black
   sleeveless top, looking down at the baby cradled against her chest. The
   back of Arabella's head, wearing a white hat is visible as is part of the
   white and pink blanket that covers her. Tubes can be seen coming from her
   face. Oxygen cannisters are visible in the background.Image source, Tia
   Image caption,

   Tia's daughter Arabella died at 17 days old after a delayed emergency
   Caesarean at Torbay Hospital

   Johanna Carr
   BBC South West Investigations
     * Published
       9 January 2025

   "When they announced she'd passed away, I just broke down crying. I was
   screaming and I said, 'If they'd listened, this would never have
   happened'."

   Tia's daughter Arabella died aged 17 days after a delayed emergency
   Caesarean at Torbay Hospital.

   The 24-year-old and another mum, Megan, whose daughter Remi suffered a
   brain injury at birth after Megan was given the wrong medication at North
   Devon District Hospital, are calling for improvements to be made.

   Both maternity units - like others in Devon - have been rated by the
   health regulator as requiring improvement.

   Torbay Hospital and North Devon District Hospital (NDDH) have apologised
   to the women and said improvements have been made since their latest
   inspections by the Care Quality Commission (CQC) in November 2023.

'I'm angry every single day'

   Tia with dark red hair sits beside a hospital cot, her tattooed arm
   reaching towards the baby in the middle. Arabella is wearing a nappy, on a
   ventilator and has wires and tubes attached to her. Blaze is stood being
   over looking down at her on the other side of the cot. Medical trolleys
   and paraphernalia visible in the background.Image source, Tia
   Image caption,

   Arabella was born at Torbay Hospital but died aged 17 days

   Tia lives in Torquay with her partner Blaze and her two children Dayton,
   seven, and three-year-old Storm.

   She said her pregnancy with second child Arabella was "not easy" and she
   had been diagnosed with gestational diabetes and polyhydramnios - a
   condition that occurs during pregnancy when there is too much amniotic
   fluid.

   In the latter stages of her pregnancy, she suffered episodes of reduced
   movements and said she grew more concerned each time she was checked out
   and sent home.

   It was these issues that led to her being admitted to hospital for an
   induction at 37 weeks and three days in April 2020.

   But the 24-year-old said the induction had been delayed by a handover.

   "No-one really bothered with me," Tia said.

   "The machine started beeping and that was her heart rate dropping, it was
   just delayed again.

   "No-one rushed, no-one hurried and it was her heartbeat."

   Newborn Arabella in a hospital bed with medical tape holding an oxygen
   tube on her nose and a monitor pad on her forehead part of a purple and
   pink striped babygrow is visible but she is wrapped in a soft pink blanket
   with stars on it. A woman's hand is holding the baby's hand, it has a
   flower tattoo on one finger and a silver flower ring on the middle
   finger.Image source, Tia
   Image caption,

   An investigation found issues with the way Arabella's heart rate had been
   monitored while Tia was being induced

   A Healthcare Safety Investigation Branch (HSIB) report found issues with
   how Arabella's heart rate was monitored after Tia had been induced and
   said when medics realised there was a problem there had been a delay
   before starting an emergency Caesarean section.

   "At the inquest they admitted that if she was born even an hour before
   she'd still be here perfectly healthy and fine," Tia said.

   "I'm angry every single day. I think what makes me angry is this should
   never have happened.

   "It makes me angry when my son asks about his sister and where she is and
   why isn't she here."

   The HSIB report noted local policy guidelines on monitoring the baby's
   heart rate had not been followed.

   The November 2023 CQC inspection found staff were still not consistently
   following "the trust's policies for 'fresh eyes' checks of
   cardiotocography (foetal heart rate) monitoring".

   Tia is looking to the right side of the frame, her long straight blonde
   hair loose around her face. She has a bottom lip piercing and is wearing a
   pale pink blazer over a white top. The background - the top of a grey sofa
   and a window - is blurred behind her.
   Image caption,

   Tia said she wanted better training and more support for maternity staff

   A spokesperson for Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust said: "We
   apologise unreservedly for the distress caused as a result of Arabella's
   tragic death in May 2020, and once again offer our sincere condolences to
   her family."

   The trust said CQC inspectors had rated its clinical care as good, adding:
   "Many of the improvements they identified have been put in place
   including... strengthening the foetal monitoring training delivered to
   staff."

   Tia now plans to raise money in Arabella's name for Kicks Count, a charity
   which raises awareness of reduced movements in pregnancy.

   She said she wanted better training and more support for maternity staff
   and also urged women to have a voice in their care.

   "Just because they're a doctor or a nurse, they don't necessarily know
   what's right for you," she said.

'I thought I was going to die'

   Megan is sitting on a grey sofa with a fleece blanket and fleece-covered
   cushion beside her. She has wavy blond hair and is wearing a cream
   coloured high neck knit jumper. Her expression is neutral and in the
   background you can see the top of a dining table with flowers in a vase on
   it and shelves with photos and knick knacks on above that
   Image caption,

   Megan was given the wrong medication which caused her daughter to suffer a
   brain injury at birth

   Another mother has spoken about her experience at a different Devon
   hospital.

   While waiting for a Caesarean at North Devon District Hospital in February
   2023, after suffering high and low blood pressure, Megan was given a drip
   which contained oxytocin rather than just saline.

   Megan, who was 19 at the time and living in Barnstaple with her partner
   Cameron, knew something was wrong within minutes.

   "The only thoughts running through my mind was obviously that I'd seen
   Remi's heart rate so, so low and I was just in excruciating pain," she
   said.

   "I remember turning to Cameron and telling him, 'I don't think I'm going
   to make it out'."

   The medication caused a placental abruption, which resulted in an
   emergency Caesarean and her daughter suffering a brain injury due to a
   lack of oxygen at birth.

   Megan is wearing a grey hoody and has her blond hair pulled back in a
   messy bus. She is cradling a small newborn in her arms who is lying in a
   white blanket or muslin which has colourful stars on it. The baby has
   various medical wires attached to her and in the foreground part of a
   medical device on a stand can be seen. Megan is sat next to her partner
   who is wearing a black hoody and cream beanie. Both parents are looking
   down at the babyImage source, Megan
   Image caption,

   Megan said: "We've had some ups and some downs, some very low downs but
   she's just an amazing little girl"

   Remi has since been diagnosed with epilepsy and cerebral palsy.

   "From day dot she has just proven that she is a fighter," said the
   22-year-old mother, who now lives in Dorset.

   "Don't get me wrong, we've had some ups and some downs, some very low
   downs but she's just an amazing little girl."

   A HSIB investigation found the oxytocin infusion was left in the operating
   theatre unattended when staff were called to an emergency.

   "This enabled the oxytocin infusion to be mistakenly collected and used in
   place of the prescribed intravenous fluids", investigators concluded,
   adding staff had overridden the hospital's electronic medication
   administration record system in order to give it to Megan.

   The hospital has since admitted liability.

   A spokesperson for Royal Devon University Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust
   said the hospital was "truly sorry to Megan, Remi and their loved ones for
   the failings they experienced".

   They added: "We have accepted that we could and should have done better
   for them and we are working with them and their legal team to agree
   compensation to support Remi in the future."

   Megan said: "It was nice to finally be able to say that it's fully
   confirmed that it was their mistake.

   "Obviously you get the anger and all sorts of emotions behind it. I mean
   every day is like a rollercoaster - we have good days, we have really bad
   days. Our life's completely changed."

Maternity services reviewed

   The safety of maternity services has been under scrutiny nationally.

   The CQC carried out a review of all maternity services, external across
   England between 2022-2024 that had not been inspected prior to March 2021.

   The review came after investigations from 2015 onwards into failings at
   specific trusts, including Morecombe Bay, Shrewsbury and Telford, and East
   Kent.

   An independent review of maternity services at Nottingham University
   Hospitals NHS Trust, which is the largest inquiry of its kind in NHS
   history, is still ongoing.

   The CQC's review of 131 NHS units highlighted issues with staffing,
   buildings, equipment and the way safety was managed, warning preventable
   harm was at risk of becoming "normalised".

   IFrame

   It found almost half were rated as requires improvement (36%) or
   inadequate (12%), while only 4% of services were rated as outstanding and
   48% were rated as good.

   On safety, nearly two thirds were rated as either inadequate (18%) or
   requires improvement (47%).

   All four of Devon's maternity units - Derriford, North Devon District
   Hospital, Royal Devon and Exeter and Torbay Hospital - were found to
   require improvement overall and in safety and leadership.

   NDDH has repeatedly been rated as requires improvement over the last
   decade following CQC inspections in 2015, 2017, 2019 and the latest in
   2023.

   In 2020, following a BBC investigation into baby deaths at the maternity
   unit, then medical director Prof Adrian Harris, who took over the unit in
   2018, said sweeping changes on the ward meant "progress" had been made,
   adding the unit was "completely different" from the "boardroom right down
   to the shop floor".

   Torbay Hospital has also repeatedly failed to improve its CQC ratings
   having received requires improvement from its last three inspections in
   2018, 2020 and 2023.

   Abbie Aplin, the director of maternity reform for the Royal College of
   Midwives, said midwives were "really sad about the state of maternity
   services".

   "They're not able to give the care they want to give to women every day,
   they work in fear most days that something will go wrong on their shift...
   which is completely unacceptable," she said.

   Ms Aplin said recruitment and the retention of experienced staff was key.

   "Sadly we're losing a lot of experienced midwives and that leaves junior
   midwives without the support they need and we need to make that better,"
   she said.

   Hannah Pugliese sits on a chair in front of a wood effect table which has
   two water glasses on it on the left of the frame while Penny Smith sits on
   the right. Both are looking at the camera, wearning black tops and
   glasses, Penny has a colourful scarf around her neck. Behind is one white
   wall and one yellow wall, a snake tongue plant in a terracotta pot and the
   bottom of a TV screen and speakers.
   Image caption,

   NHS Devon's director of women Hannah Pugliese and chief nurse Penny Smith
   said they wanted to reassure women about maternity services in the county

   Speaking to the BBC, Hannah Pugliese, who is director of women at NHS
   Devon Integrated Care Board (ICB), which commissions maternity services
   across Devon, said she wanted to reassure women.

   "We've been able to respond really quickly to what the CQC has found and
   what we wouldn't want is for the women and the families in Devon to feel
   that they were going into maternity units that weren't safe because we've
   been able to make really rapid improvement in the areas that were
   identified," she said.

   In relation to North Devon District Hospital, chief nurse Penny Smith
   said: "There were some really radical changes made to improve the
   resilience of the unit which has had really good impact and we need to
   sustain those impacts and carry them forward."

   Asked if it was sustainable to have four maternity units in Devon or if
   care needed to be centralised, Ms Pugliese said: "Those discussions are
   always part of what we're considering for Devon because it's important
   that we understand both the needs of the rural population and the needs of
   those living in town."

   Ms Pugliese added no changes would be made without consultation as the
   public's view was really important.

'Driving up standards'

   A Department of Health and Social Care spokesperson said the NHS was
   "broken" and women were not "receiving the safe, personalised and
   compassionate maternity care they deserve".

   "We are committed to driving up standards in healthcare through our Plan
   for Change," the spokesperson added.

   "We will support trusts failing on maternity care to make rapid
   improvements and work closely with NHS England to train thousands more
   midwives to support women throughout their pregnancy and beyond."

   Tia and Megan said they had shared their stories in the hope it would make
   a difference and other families would not have to go through what they
   had.

   Megan said: "For something so tragic to go wrong, and I'm not the only one
   that's gone through something like this, what's it going to take to make a
   change?"

   Tia added: "They can't keep letting this happen. One baby is bad enough."

   If you have been affected by any of the issues raised in this story you
   can visit BBC Action Line.

   Follow BBC Cornwall on X (formerly Twitter), external, Facebook, external
   and Instagram, external. Follow BBC Devon on X (formerly Twitter),
   external, Facebook, external and Instagram, external. Send your story
   ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk, external.

Related topics

     * Devon
     * Care Quality Commission
     * NHS
     * Pregnancy

More on this story

     * Harm at risk of being normalised in maternity care

          * Published
            19 September 2024
       Close up image of a newborn baby holding a mother's hand
     * The story behind the largest maternity review in the NHS

          * Published
            27 July 2024
       Sarah Hawkins, who has long blonde hair and is wearing a flowery top,
       stands to the left of her husband Jack. He has stubble and is wearing
       a blue gingham shirt and dark suit jacket.
     * Most maternity units not safe enough - regulator

          * Published
            16 November 2023
       Mother and baby stock image

Related internet links

     * Care Quality Commission

Top stories

     * As winds pick up, LA firefighters desperately battle to contain
       monster inferno

          * Published
            49 minutes ago
     * Mel Gibson, Jeff Bridges and other LA celebrities lose homes to
       wildfires

          * Published
            8 hours ago
     * Police officer dies in North Yorkshire collision

          * Published
            1 hour ago

More to explore

     * 'Being good looking isn't enough': Can Love Island still make you
       rich?

       Maya Jama in a white dress surrounded by Love Island All Stars
       contestants, standing in front of a pool
     * 'My partner hid and secretly waved off my ship': LGBT veteran monument
       revealed

       Royal Navy veteran Lt Cdr Duncan Lustig-Prean looks at the camera. He
       has a shaved head and is wearing a dark grey suit jacket, grey shirt,
       and black tie with red and white stripes. On his right lapel is a
       Royal Navy badge.
     * 'I got death threats when men thought I put feminist gesture in video
       game'

       A close up of a video game character with pink hair and a heart hair
       clip. The character is holding her finger and thumb close together.
     * Is it a bomb? Is it a plane crash? No, it's space junk landing

       A crowd, including police officers behind yellow tape looking on at a
       giant metal ring which fell from space on to farmland in Mukuku, Kenya
     * Nostalgia and passion fuel young couple running old-school photo lab

       Fabriccio smiles at the camera while putting his arm around his wife,
       Lucia
     * Girl with severe allergies has to try new food outside A&E

       A young girl with blue eyes and blond hair tied up in a pig tail. She
       is wearing a colourful jacket and a pick jumper with flowers on
     * 'I fought for years to correct my dad's death certificate - but still
       haven't buried him'

       Picture of Tessa in front of an image of her father
     * The star player hoping to turn millions of TikTok followers into rugby
       fans

       Ilona Maher poses for a selfie with a fan during her Bristol Bears
       debut . Ilona wears the blue and white striped Bristol Bears kit and
       red lipstick. She smiles as she holds a phone out for a photo with a
       young woman in a pink coat and black beanie.
     * A murder that shook British India and toppled a king

       Mumtaz Begum, wearing a traditional Indian dress, with a bindi on her
       forehead

Elsewhere on the BBC

     * Dragons’ Den returns with a new line-up of celebrity guests

       Can a fresh batch of entrepreneurs secure the deal of a lifetime?

       Dragons' Den
     * Are smart scales really as ‘smart’ as they claim to be?

       Greg Foot explores whether they can accurately measure weight, body
       fat, muscle and bone mass

       Sliced Bread
     * The award-winning psychological competition is back

       A nail-biting game of detection, backstabbing and trust. Who will make
       it through?

       The Traitors
     * How close are we to a cancer vaccine?

       How might it help in the treatment of the disease?

       The Inquiry

Most read

    1. 1
       Police officer dies in North Yorkshire collision
    2. 2
       As winds pick up, LA firefighters desperately battle to contain
       monster inferno
    3. 3
       'Labour critics circle' Reeves and 'Nine-jobs Nigel'
    4. 4
       Mel Gibson, Jeff Bridges and other LA celebrities lose homes to
       wildfires
    5. 5
       PM should sack Siddiq over corruption claims, Badenoch says
    6. 6
       'My partner hid and secretly waved off my ship': LGBT veteran monument
       revealed
    7. 7
       Katie Piper gets 'artificial eye' after acid attack
    8. 8
       'I got death threats when men thought I put feminist gesture in video
       game'
    9. 9
       Eric Morecambe's trademark glasses sell for £20,000
   10. 10
       A murder that shook British India and toppled a king

BBC News Services

     * On your mobile
     * On smart speakers
     * Get news alerts
     * Contact BBC News
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * Culture
     * Future
     * Music
     * TV
     * Weather
     * Sounds
     * Terms of Use
     * About the BBC
     * Privacy Policy
     * Cookies
     * Accessibility Help
     * Parental Guidance
     * Contact the BBC
     * Get Personalised Newsletters
     * Why you can trust the BBC
     * Advertise with us

   © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.
   Read about our approach to external linking.
