   Link: canonical

   OpenBible.info Geocoding Topical Bible Labs Blog

   What does the Bible say about _______________________________ ? [ Find
   Out ]

   A ‣ B ‣ C ‣ D ‣ E ‣ F ‣ G ‣ H ‣ I ‣ J ‣ K ‣ L ‣ M ‣ N ‣ O ‣ P ‣ Q ‣ R ‣ S
   ‣ T ‣ U ‣ V ‣ W ‣ Y ‣ Z

                         100 Bible Verses about Babies

  Jeremiah 1:5 ESV / 275 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   “Before I formed you in the womb I knew you, and before you were born I
   consecrated you; I appointed you a prophet to the nations.”

  Psalm 139:13-16 ESV / 271 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   For you formed my inward parts; you knitted me together in my mother's
   womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are
   your works; my soul knows it very well. My frame was not hidden from you,
   when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the depths of the
   earth. Your eyes saw my unformed substance; in your book were written,
   every one of them, the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was
   none of them.

  Psalm 127:3-5 ESV / 267 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord, the fruit of the womb a
   reward. Like arrows in the hand of a warrior are the children of one's
   youth. Blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them! He shall not be
   put to shame when he speaks with his enemies in the gate.

  Psalm 127:3 ESV / 193 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord, the fruit of the womb a
   reward.

  Luke 18:15-17 ESV / 165 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Now they were bringing even infants to him that he might touch them. And
   when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them to
   him, saying, “Let the children come to me, and do not hinder them, for to
   such belongs the kingdom of God. Truly, I say to you, whoever does not
   receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it.”

  Proverbs 22:6 ESV / 142 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Train up a child in the way he should go; even when he is old he will not
   depart from it.

  Mark 10:13-16 ESV / 136 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And they were bringing children to him that he might touch them, and the
   disciples rebuked them. But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said
   to them, “Let the children come to me; do not hinder them, for to such
   belongs the kingdom of God. Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive
   the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it.” And he took them in
   his arms and blessed them, laying his hands on them.

  Isaiah 49:15 ESV / 131 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   “Can a woman forget her nursing child, that she should have no compassion
   on the son of her womb? Even these may forget, yet I will not forget you.

  Matthew 19:14 ESV / 117 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   But Jesus said, “Let the little children come to me and do not hinder
   them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven.”

  Luke 1:41-44 ESV / 112 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And when Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the baby leaped in her
   womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit, and she exclaimed
   with a loud cry, “Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of
   your womb! And why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should
   come to me? For behold, when the sound of your greeting came to my ears,
   the baby in my womb leaped for joy.

  1 Samuel 1:27 ESV / 97 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   For this child I prayed, and the Lord has granted me my petition that I
   made to him.

  Proverbs 17:6 ESV / 96 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Grandchildren are the crown of the aged, and the glory of children is
   their fathers.

  Luke 2:16 ESV / 90 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph, and the baby lying in
   a manger.

  Matthew 18:10 ESV / 90 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   “See that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I tell you that
   in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who is in heaven.

  Matthew 19:13-15 ESV / 87 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Then children were brought to him that he might lay his hands on them and
   pray. The disciples rebuked the people, but Jesus said, “Let the little
   children come to me and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the
   kingdom of heaven.” And he laid his hands on them and went away.

  Ephesians 6:4 ESV / 86 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the
   discipline and instruction of the Lord.

  John 16:21 ESV / 76 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   When a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come,
   but when she has delivered the baby, she no longer remembers the anguish,
   for joy that a human being has been born into the world.

  1 Samuel 1:27-28 ESV / 75 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   For this child I prayed, and the Lord has granted me my petition that I
   made to him. Therefore I have lent him to the Lord. As long as he lives,
   he is lent to the Lord.” And he worshiped the Lord there.

  Psalm 139:13 ESV / 73 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   For you formed my inward parts; you knitted me together in my mother's
   womb.

  James 1:17 ESV / 69 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the
   Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change.

  Psalm 8:2 ESV / 63 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Out of the mouth of babies and infants, you have established strength
   because of your foes, to still the enemy and the avenger.

  Ecclesiastes 11:5 ESV / 60 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   As you do not know the way the spirit comes to the bones in the womb of a
   woman with child, so you do not know the work of God who makes everything.

  Job 10:8-12 ESV / 58 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Your hands fashioned and made me, and now you have destroyed me
   altogether. Remember that you have made me like clay; and will you return
   me to the dust? Did you not pour me out like milk and curdle me like
   cheese? You clothed me with skin and flesh, and knit me together with
   bones and sinews. You have granted me life and steadfast love, and your
   care has preserved my spirit.

  Mark 9:36-37 ESV / 56 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And he took a child and put him in the midst of them, and taking him in
   his arms, he said to them, “Whoever receives one such child in my name
   receives me, and whoever receives me, receives not me but him who sent
   me.”

  Galatians 1:15 ESV / 54 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   But when he who had set me apart before I was born, and who called me by
   his grace,

  Luke 1:14 ESV / 50 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth,

  Ephesians 6:1-4 ESV / 48 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. “Honor your
   father and mother” (this is the first commandment with a promise), “that
   it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land.” Fathers,
   do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline
   and instruction of the Lord.

  Matthew 18:1-6 ESV / 47 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   At that time the disciples came to Jesus, saying, “Who is the greatest in
   the kingdom of heaven?” And calling to him a child, he put him in the
   midst of them and said, “Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become
   like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoever humbles
   himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. “Whoever
   receives one such child in my name receives me, ...

  Hosea 13:16 ESV / 47 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Samaria shall bear her guilt, because she has rebelled against her God;
   they shall fall by the sword; their little ones shall be dashed in pieces,
   and their pregnant women ripped open.

  Isaiah 44:24 ESV / 46 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, who formed you from the womb: “I am the
   Lord, who made all things, who alone stretched out the heavens, who spread
   out the earth by myself,

  Isaiah 44:2 ESV / 46 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Thus says the Lord who made you, who formed you from the womb and will
   help you: Fear not, O Jacob my servant, Jeshurun whom I have chosen.

  Isaiah 13:16 ESV / 46 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Their infants will be dashed in pieces before their eyes; their houses
   will be plundered and their wives ravished.

  Exodus 2:2-10 ESV / 45 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   The woman conceived and bore a son, and when she saw that he was a fine
   child, she hid him three months. When she could hide him no longer, she
   took for him a basket made of bulrushes and daubed it with bitumen and
   pitch. She put the child in it and placed it among the reeds by the river
   bank. And his sister stood at a distance to know what would be done to
   him. Now the daughter of Pharaoh came down to bathe at the river, while
   her young women walked beside the river. She saw the basket among the
   reeds and sent her servant woman, and she took it. When she opened it, she
   saw the child, and behold, the baby was crying. She took pity on him and
   said, “This is one of the Hebrews' children.” ...

  Isaiah 54:13 ESV / 44 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   All your children shall be taught by the Lord, and great shall be the
   peace of your children.

  2 Kings 6:29 ESV / 41 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   So we boiled my son and ate him. And on the next day I said to her, ‘Give
   your son, that we may eat him.’ But she has hidden her son.”

  Proverbs 13:24 ESV / 40 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Whoever spares the rod hates his son, but he who loves him is diligent to
   discipline him.

  Jeremiah 29:11 ESV / 38 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for welfare
   and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope.

  Proverbs 29:17 ESV / 38 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Discipline your son, and he will give you rest; he will give delight to
   your heart.

  Mark 10:16 ESV / 36 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And he took them in his arms and blessed them, laying his hands on them.

  Deuteronomy 6:6-7 ESV / 36 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. You shall
   teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you
   sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down,
   and when you rise.

  Luke 1:44 ESV / 35 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   For behold, when the sound of your greeting came to my ears, the baby in
   my womb leaped for joy.

  Proverbs 1:8-9 ESV / 35 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Hear, my son, your father's instruction, and forsake not your mother's
   teaching, for they are a graceful garland for your head and pendants for
   your neck.

  Deuteronomy 28:53 ESV / 35 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And you shall eat the fruit of your womb, the flesh of your sons and
   daughters, whom the Lord your God has given you, in the siege and in the
   distress with which your enemies shall distress you.

  3 John 1:4 ESV / 34 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the
   truth.

  Luke 2:12 ESV / 32 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And this will be a sign for you: you will find a baby wrapped in swaddling
   cloths and lying in a manger.”

  1 Peter 2:2 ESV / 31 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may
   grow up into salvation—

  Hebrews 11:23 ESV / 31 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his
   parents, because they saw that the child was beautiful, and they were not
   afraid of the king's edict.

  Luke 2:40 ESV / 31 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And the child grew and became strong, filled with wisdom. And the favor of
   God was upon him.

  Psalm 113:9 ESV / 31 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   He gives the barren woman a home, making her the joyous mother of
   children. Praise the Lord!

  2 Timothy 3:14-15 ESV / 30 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   But as for you, continue in what you have learned and have firmly
   believed, knowing from whom you learned it and how from childhood you have
   been acquainted with the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise
   for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.

  Deuteronomy 2:34 ESV / 30 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And we captured all his cities at that time and devoted to destruction
   every city, men, women, and children. We left no survivors.

  Psalm 137:9 ESV / 29 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Blessed shall he be who takes your little ones and dashes them against the
   rock!

  Exodus 20:12 ESV / 29 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   “Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long in the land
   that the Lord your God is giving you.

  Isaiah 13:18 ESV / 28 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Their bows will slaughter the young men; they will have no mercy on the
   fruit of the womb; their eyes will not pity children.

  1 Samuel 15:3 ESV / 28 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Now go and strike Amalek and devote to destruction all that they have. Do
   not spare them, but kill both man and woman, child and infant, ox and
   sheep, camel and donkey.’”

  Exodus 2:2-3 ESV / 28 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   The woman conceived and bore a son, and when she saw that he was a fine
   child, she hid him three months. When she could hide him no longer, she
   took for him a basket made of bulrushes and daubed it with bitumen and
   pitch. She put the child in it and placed it among the reeds by the river
   bank.

  1 John 3:1 ESV / 27 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   See what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we should be called
   children of God; and so we are. The reason why the world does not know us
   is that it did not know him.

  Colossians 3:20 ESV / 27 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Children, obey your parents in everything, for this pleases the Lord.

  John 1:12 ESV / 27 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the
   right to become children of God,

  1 Timothy 5:8 ESV / 26 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   But if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for
   members of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an
   unbeliever.

  Proverbs 29:15 ESV / 26 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   The rod and reproof give wisdom, but a child left to himself brings shame
   to his mother.

  Ephesians 6:1-3 ESV / 25 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. “Honor your
   father and mother” (this is the first commandment with a promise), “that
   it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land.”

  Romans 8:14 ESV / 25 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God.

  Mark 10:14 ESV / 25 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them, “Let the
   children come to me; do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom
   of God.

  Deuteronomy 11:19 ESV / 25 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   You shall teach them to your children, talking of them when you are
   sitting in your house, and when you are walking by the way, and when you
   lie down, and when you rise.

  Ephesians 2:10 ESV / 24 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which
   God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.

  Matthew 19:13-14 ESV / 24 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Then children were brought to him that he might lay his hands on them and
   pray. The disciples rebuked the people, but Jesus said, “Let the little
   children come to me and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the
   kingdom of heaven.”

  Proverbs 15:5 ESV / 24 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   A fool despises his father's instruction, but whoever heeds reproof is
   prudent.

  Psalm 23:1-6 ESV / 24 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   A Psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He makes me
   lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores
   my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even
   though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no
   evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You
   prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies; you anoint my
   head with oil; my cup overflows. ...

  Deuteronomy 6:7 ESV / 24 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them
   when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie
   down, and when you rise.

  Genesis 21:8 ESV / 24 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And the child grew and was weaned. And Abraham made a great feast on the
   day that Isaac was weaned.

  1 John 5:21 ESV / 23 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Little children, keep yourselves from idols.

  Romans 8:16 ESV / 23 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of
   God,

  Psalm 127:1-5 ESV / 23 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   A Song of Ascents. Of Solomon. Unless the Lord builds the house, those who
   build it labor in vain. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the
   watchman stays awake in vain. It is in vain that you rise up early and go
   late to rest, eating the bread of anxious toil; for he gives to his
   beloved sleep. Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord, the fruit of
   the womb a reward. Like arrows in the hand of a warrior are the children
   of one's youth. Blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them! He
   shall not be put to shame when he speaks with his enemies in the gate.

  Exodus 21:22-25 ESV / 23 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   “When men strive together and hit a pregnant woman, so that her children
   come out, but there is no harm, the one who hit her shall surely be fined,
   as the woman's husband shall impose on him, and he shall pay as the judges
   determine. But if there is harm, then you shall pay life for life, eye for
   eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound
   for wound, stripe for stripe.

  Proverbs 13:22 ESV / 22 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   A good man leaves an inheritance to his children's children, but the
   sinner's wealth is laid up for the righteous.

  Deuteronomy 6:6-9 ESV / 22 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. You shall
   teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you
   sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down,
   and when you rise. You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they
   shall be as frontlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the
   doorposts of your house and on your gates.

  Genesis 33:5 ESV / 22 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And when Esau lifted up his eyes and saw the women and children, he said,
   “Who are these with you?” Jacob said, “The children whom God has
   graciously given your servant.”

  Proverbs 20:11 ESV / 21 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Even a child makes himself known by his acts, by whether his conduct is
   pure and upright.

  2 Kings 2:23-24 ESV / 21 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   He went up from there to Bethel, and while he was going up on the way,
   some small boys came out of the city and jeered at him, saying, “Go up,
   you baldhead! Go up, you baldhead!” And he turned around, and when he saw
   them, he cursed them in the name of the Lord. And two she-bears came out
   of the woods and tore forty-two of the boys.

  Deuteronomy 4:9 ESV / 21 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   “Only take care, and keep your soul diligently, lest you forget the things
   that your eyes have seen, and lest they depart from your heart all the
   days of your life. Make them known to your children and your children's
   children—

  Luke 2:23 ESV / 20 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   (as it is written in the Law of the Lord, “Every male who first opens the
   womb shall be called holy to the Lord”)

  Matthew 21:15-16 ESV / 20 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that
   he did, and the children crying out in the temple, “Hosanna to the Son of
   David!” they were indignant, and they said to him, “Do you hear what these
   are saying?” And Jesus said to them, “Yes; have you never read, “‘Out of
   the mouth of infants and nursing babies you have prepared praise’?”

  Proverbs 22:15 ESV / 20 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline
   drives it far from him.

  2 Kings 15:16 ESV / 20 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   At that time Menahem sacked Tiphsah and all who were in it and its
   territory from Tirzah on, because they did not open it to him. Therefore
   he sacked it, and he ripped open all the women in it who were pregnant.

  Genesis 21:1-3 ESV / 20 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   The Lord visited Sarah as he had said, and the Lord did to Sarah as he had
   promised. And Sarah conceived and bore Abraham a son in his old age at the
   time of which God had spoken to him. Abraham called the name of his son
   who was born to him, whom Sarah bore him, Isaac.

  Genesis 1:28 ESV / 20 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   And God blessed them. And God said to them, “Be fruitful and multiply and
   fill the earth and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea
   and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves
   on the earth.”

  Ephesians 5:1 ESV / 19 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children.

  Ezekiel 9:6 ESV / 19 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Kill old men outright, young men and maidens, little children and women,
   but touch no one on whom is the mark. And begin at my sanctuary.” So they
   began with the elders who were before the house.

  Hebrews 12:11 ESV / 18 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but
   later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been
   trained by it.

  Hebrews 12:9-11 ESV / 18 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us and we
   respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father of spirits
   and live? For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to
   them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness.
   For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but
   later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been
   trained by it.

  1 Timothy 4:12 ESV / 18 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Let no one despise you for your youth, but set the believers an example in
   speech, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity.

  Romans 8:19 ESV / 18 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of
   God.

  John 3:16 ESV / 18 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever
   believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.

  Matthew 18:12-14 ESV / 18 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep, and one of them has gone
   astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine on the mountains and go in
   search of the one that went astray? And if he finds it, truly, I say to
   you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine that never went
   astray. So it is not the will of my Father who is in heaven that one of
   these little ones should perish.

  Matthew 18:1-5 ESV / 18 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   At that time the disciples came to Jesus, saying, “Who is the greatest in
   the kingdom of heaven?” And calling to him a child, he put him in the
   midst of them and said, “Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become
   like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoever humbles
   himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. “Whoever
   receives one such child in my name receives me,

  Matthew 5:9 ESV / 18 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   “Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God.

  Psalm 115:14 ESV / 18 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   May the Lord give you increase, you and your children!

  1 John 3:2-3 ESV / 17 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet
   appeared; but we know that when he appears we shall be like him, because
   we shall see him as he is. And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies
   himself as he is pure.

  2 Timothy 1:5 ESV / 17 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful

   I am reminded of your sincere faith, a faith that dwelt first in your
   grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice and now, I am sure, dwells in you
   as well.

Suggest a Verse

  Enter a Verse Reference (e.g., John 3:16-17)

   _______________________________ [ Preview ]
   Visit the Bible online to search for words if you don’t know the specific
   passage your’re looking for.

   Unless otherwise indicated, all content is licensed under a Creative
   Commons Attribution License. All Scripture quotations, unless otherwise
   indicated, are taken from The Holy Bible, English Standard Version.
   Copyright ©2001 by Crossway Bibles, a publishing ministry of Good News
   Publishers. Contact me: openbibleinfo (at) gmail.com.
