   Link: canonical
   Link: shortlink
   [IMG]
     * Home
     * Babes Your Friend
          * About Us
          * Our Board
          * Our Team
          * Statutory information and Policies
          * Annual Reports, Financial Info & Newsletters
          * Press & Media
     * We Are Here For You
          * Our Services
          * Useful Information
          * Teenage Girls Speak
          * Women of Babes
          * From Around The World
          * Outreach and Youth Engagement
     * Get Involved
          * Donation: Dollar Matching
          * Volunteer
     * Events
     * Contact Us
   Babes Pregnancy Crisis Support Ltd. Babes Pregnancy Crisis Support Ltd.
   Babes Pregnancy Crisis Support Ltd. Babes Pregnancy Crisis Support Ltd.
   Babes Pregnancy Crisis Support Ltd. Babes Pregnancy Crisis Support Ltd.
   Babes Pregnancy Crisis Support Ltd. Babes Pregnancy Crisis Support Ltd.
   Our Board
     * Home
     * Babes Your Friend
     * Our Board

                               Babes Your Friend

     * About Us
     * Our Board
     * Our Team
     * Statutory information and Policies
     * Annual Reports, Financial Info & Newsletters
     * Press & Media
     * Our Board

  Sophie Mathur

   Partner - Corporate
   Linklaters LLP

   Sophie is a Partner and the Asia Head of the Corporate practice at
   Linklaters, a global law firm.

   As someone who is passionate about helping people fulfil their potential,
   Sophie is actively involved in several mentorship and coaching programmes.
   She is also on the Board of Advisors of the Law School of the Singapore
   Management University.

   Sophie is the mother of three energetic and hilarious children and spends
   her free time trying to keep up with them.

   A Singapore permanent resident, Sophie has a BA in law from Oxford
   University.

  Dr Chua Yang

   Obstetrician & Gynaecologist
   MBBS (Singapore), FRCOG (UK), FAMS
   Graduate Diploma (Acupuncture)
   Graduate Diploma (Mental Health)

   Dr Chua Yang is an obstetrician and gynecologist practicing at Mt Alvernia
   Medical Centre. She graduated from the National University of Singapore
   and is a fellow of the Royal College of Obstetricians & Gynaecologists
   (UK) as well as the Academy of Medicine, Singapore. She also holds
   graduate diplomas in acupuncture and in mental health.

   Yang is the founding director and head of women’s health for Global
   Clinic, a non-profit organization representing medical and dental doctors
   who volunteer their time and resources to provide healthcare services in
   remote areas around the world.

   She is a past President of the Asia Pacific Menopause Federation and past
   president of the Menopause Research Society of Singapore. She is the
   medical advisor of “Woman to Woman” Menopause Support Group and has also
   served on the councils and committees of the Obstetrical & Gynaecological
   Society of Singapore, the Academy of Medicne O&G Chapter as well as the
   Association of Women Doctors (Singapore).

   Yang is passionate about preventive medicine and health education. She
   spends time speaking at public forums, health talks and has written a
   regular column for Health No. 1 Magazine about Health and Happiness.

  Kelvin Ang

   Group Treasurer
   ST Telemedia Global Data Centres

   Kelvin Ang is presently Group Treasurer at ST Telemedia Global Data
   Centres (“STT GDC”), one of the world’s fastest-growing data centre
   providers. Powering a sustainable digital future, STT GDC operates across
   Singapore, UK, Germany, India, Thailand, South Korea, Indonesia, Japan and
   the Philippines.

   Between 2018 and 2023, Kelvin served as the Head of Group Treasury &
   Corporate Finance at Sembcorp Marine Ltd and as the Head, Group Treasury
   at SMRT Corporation Ltd.

   Kelvin started his career with DBS Bank as a Management Associate, and
   spent more than a decade with the bank. He was also on the bank’s Talent
   Programme and a recipient of its Chairman Recognition Award.

   In 2022, Kelvin completed a Master of Professional Accounting (“MPA”) from
   Singapore Management University (“SMU”) on a SMU Masters ASEAN
   Scholarship, and received the CPA Australia CPA Program Award for Top MPA
   Graduate.

   Kelvin has also been a CFA Charterholder since 2012, and holds a
   Sustainability and Climate Risk Certificate by the Global Association of
   Risk Professionals.

   Kelvin graduated with a Bachelor of Engineering (Electrical Engineering,
   2nd Class Upper Honours, with a minor in Business) from the National
   University of Singapore.

   Outside of work, Kelvin is an avid footballer and father to a rather
   energetic young boy. An active volunteer, he is currently Honorary
   Secretary of the Singapore Athletic Association and devotes time to
   several grassroots organisations that serve the community in his
   neighbourhood.

  Peng Chai Wei

   Managing Director and Head of Asean Equities
   Citigroup Global Markets

   Chai Wei is the Managing Director and Head of Asean Equities, Citigroup
   Global Markets. She started her career as an Equities Analyst before
   moving on to Equities Sales and has been in the financial industry for 30
   years, having worked in both Hong Kong and Singapore. She graduated with a
   BA (Hons) from the National University of Singapore.

   Chai Wei is a mother of 3 teenage children and is constantly striving to
   understand the challenges they face today, and helping them to navigate
   the new world we live in, to achieve their full potential.

   Beyond work and family, Chai Wei is an avid scuba diver and in recent
   years has taken up cycling and running.  

    

  Tan Hai Yong (Daniel)

   Partner - Strategy and Transactions
   EY Singapore

   Daniel has been with EY for more than 20 years, of which 5 years were
   spent in the New York, working with various clients on their M&A
   transactions in different industries across various geographies around the
   world.

   Daniel has advised on a range of transactions ranging from accounting
   consultations, buy-side, sell-side, carve-out transactions, M&A
   transactions, advising on deal and SPA matters, and post-acquisition
   support.  Prior to that Daniel worked in Assurance in Singapore, Melbourne
   (Australia) and San Jose (California) working with both public and private
   companies on general audit and IPO assignments.

   Daniel is a member of CPA Australia and of the Institute of Singapore
   Chartered Accountants and a non-practicing member of the American
   Institute of Certified Public Accountants (California). He holds a
   Bachelor of Commerce (Accounting and Finance) from the University of
   Melbourne, Australia.

    

  Ryme Dembri

   Founder
   ValuAscend Pte Ltd

   Ryme Dembri is a transformative business leader known for steering complex
   business opportunities through strategic talent and organizational
   initiatives. She is passionate about creating stakeholder value leveraging
   Human Capabilities.

   In the last 25 years, Ryme has held various regional and global leadership
   positions in renowned MNCs such as ASM, Dole, Whirlpool, Philips, PwC and
   lived in 7 countries across Europe and Singapore. She recently set up her
   own consultancy, ValuAscend, helping investors and business founders
   enhance their company value.

   With a diverse perspective and community engagement, Ryme thrives in
   dynamic and multicultural environments. French National settled in
   Singapore with her 2 kids, Ryme aspires to make a difference by sharing
   her personal journey and continuous drive for growth.

  Our Board of Directors

     * Chairperson

       Ms Sophie Mathur
     * Treasurer

       Mr Tan Hai Yong (Daniel)
     * Board Members

       Dr Chua Yang Mr Kelvin Ang Ms Peng Chai Wei Ms Ryme Dembri
     * Company Secretary

       Ms Aw Ee Tuan
     * Advisor

       Mr Stanley Tan

  Our Board Committees

     * Audit Committee

       Mr Kelvin Ang Ms Teng Li Yeng Ms Lucretia Aik
     * Finance Committee

       Mr Tan Hai Yong (Daniel) Ms Hetal Dave
     * Fundraising Committee

       Ms Peng Chai Wei Ms Natalya Ann Twohill Ms Neetika Agarwal
     * Human Resource Committee

       Ms Ryme Dembri Ms Sophie Mathur Ms Peng Chai Wei Ms Oh Chai Yee
     * Programme & Services Committee

       Dr Chua Yang Ms Anthea Kiu Ms Geraldyn Lim Mr Mohamad Faiz Selamat Ms
       Cheo Pei Rong Ms Patricia Wong Dr Serena Koh
     * Nomination Committee

       Ms Sophie Mathur Ms Peng Chai Wei

  About Babes

   Babes Pregnancy Crisis Support Ltd is a non-profit agency that journeys
   with pregnant teenagers, providing emotional support, information and
   resources to empower them to make responsible decisions on their
   pregnancy.

   We run a 24-hour helpline so that anyone in need of help can call us at
   6206 6641 or text via Whatsapp at 8111 3535.

  Follow Us

  Useful Links

     * About Us
     * Our Board
     * Our Team
     * Statutory information and Policies
     * Annual Reports, Financial Info & Newsletters
     * Press & Media
     * Terms of Use
     * Data Protection & Privacy Policy

  Contact Us

     * Blk 328 Sembawang Crescent #01-02 S750328
     * 6206 6641
     * 8111 3535
     * hello@babes.org.sg
   Copyright © 2025 Babes Pregnancy Crisis Support Ltd. All rights reserved.
   Web Excellence by Verz
   Top 
