   Link: canonical
   Skip to main content
   GQ
   GQ
   STYLE
   RECOMMENDS
   CULTURE
   GROOMING
   WELLNESS
   GQ SPORTS
   THE GQ BOX
   VIDEOS
   Menu
   Newsletters
   Menu
   STYLE
   RECOMMENDS
   New Arrivals
   Menswear Under $250
   Best Sellers
   Editors' Wishlists
   Menswear Deals
   CULTURE
   GROOMING
   WELLNESS
   GQ SPORTS
   THE GQ BOX
   VIDEOS
   MORE
   MEN OF THE YEAR
   NEWSLETTERS
   Search
   Sign In
   Women

                       Masters of Sexy: The Year in Babes

   The models, movie stars, spring breakers, thirst traps, twerk teams, and
   TV ladies that made 2013 all the easier to love
   By The Editors of GQ
   December 2, 2013
   Save
   Save
     * This image may contain Emily Ratajkowski Human Person Face Clothing
       Apparel and Female
       Photo: Terry Richardson
       1/24

       Starring EMILY RATAJKOWSKI, a.k.a. that girl in the “Blurred Lines”
       video

     * Image may contain Clothing Apparel Lingerie Underwear Bra Human Person
       and Panties
       Photo: Terry Richardson
       2/24

       See more Emily Ratajkowski here

     * This image may contain Clothing Apparel Human Person Evening Dress
       Robe Fashion Gown Dress Runway and Lighting
       Photo: Getty
       3/24

       Sexiest (Possibly Fake) Pratfall of the Year: Jennifer Lawrence

       Jennifer Lawrence didn't just win best actress this year—she upped the
       awesome and ate shit on her way to the podium. If it had happened to
       anyone else, the Internet would've cast down its eyes to maintain her
       dignity in the face of gravest embarrassment. But Lawrence, who had
       won the infatuation of men and the be-my-BFF-ness of women, was in
       fact accused of doing it on purpose. It was an extension, they
       claimed, of her brassy anti-class: the young woman who had visited
       old-lady strip clubs in ATL on off-shooting nights, peed herself when
       laughing too hard, still got beat up by her brothers, and apparently
       couldn't move in a gown. We're here to tell you: She didn't stage
       it—not thinking shit out is what makes her different from every other
       actress in movies. Sometimes crazy happens. Like Jack Nicholson
       hitting on you backstage at the Oscars—the creepy cherry on top of the
       whole evening. George Stephanopoulos (on hand interviewing her) was
       horrified; Jennifer Lawrence was all unfazed bliss.

     * This image may contain Glasses Accessories Accessory Human Person Face
       Female and Hair
       Photo: Patrick Harbron / Netflix
       4/24

       The Connie Britton “TV Wife of the Year” Award: Robin Wright

       “I love that woman. I love her more than sharks love blood....” This
       isn't the first aside Frank Underwood makes in the pilot of House of
       Cards, but it was the first one that made us laugh out loud—and then
       also think, This marriage is KILLER. Here's what you can learn from
       the marital compromises of Frank and Claire.

       Anything is possible without secrets.

       Even sanctioned affairs!

       Trade favors. (You get your cub reporter; I get my foreign
       photographer.)

       Don't force each other to quit. Just share cigarettes.

       When proposing marriage, say: “Claire, if all you want is happiness,
       say ‘no.’ ... I promise you'll never be bored.”

     * This image may contain Katherine Webb Clothing Apparel Human Person
       Female Blouse and Woman
       Photo: Getty
       5/24

       Miss Alabama: Light of my Life, Fire of my Musburger

       An old man actually said this to 26 million people on live television
       during the BCS National Championship when the camera panned to
       Katherine Webb:

       “I'm telling you, you quarterbacks, you get all the good-looking
       women.… What a beautiful woman. Whoa!… So if you're a youngster in
       Alabama, start getting the football out and throwing it around the
       backyard with Pop.”

     * This image may contain Clothing Apparel Pants Human Person Elisabeth
       Moss Furniture Chair Footwear Shoe and Female
       Photo: Steven Pan
       6/24

       Foreign Accent of the Year: Elisabeth Moss

       “Johnno!” “Tui!” (in New Zealandese)

       *Watch Sundance's Top of the Lake—if you haven't, you really
       should—and wonder whether Moss is a Kiwi deep down.

     * Image may contain Human and Person
       Illustration: Brown Bird Design
       7/24

       Fitness Freak of the Year

       Amanda Bynes kinda cracked up this summer. She tweeted insanely and
       incessantly (“I want @drake to murder my vagina”) and apparently
       ercised like a demon, inspiring our favorite workout of 2013.

     * This image may contain Kerry Washington Advertisement Collage Poster
       Human Person Face Keri Russell Female and Hair
       Photo: Getty
       8/24

       Keri vs. Kerry: Hot-Flawed-Female Leads of the Year

       Among the scores of a-little-bit-broken, a-lotta-bit-badass new female
       TV leads, none register quite as attractive as The Americans' Keri
       Russell and _Scandal'_s Kerry Washington. (Some will disagree.)
       Instead of being _SNL-_parody-ably unstable (Claire Danes, Homeland),
       drug-addictedly battle-ax-y (Edie Falco, Nurse Jackie), or
       narcissistically disillusioned (Lena Dunham, Girls), these two are in
       powerful control of their kind of crazy.

     * Image may contain Face Human Person Clothing and Apparel
       Photo: Marc Hom
       9/24

       Song of the Year From a Movie We Watched on an Airplane: Anna Kendrick

       Yes, “Cups” is a song from 1931 (“When I'm Gone”) performed in a movie
       from 2012 (Pitch Perfect), but it topped the Billboard charts in 2013.
       Upshot: Anna Kendrick can sing, too!

     * This image may contain Rooney Mara Text Plot Label Human Person and
       Aylin Tezel
       10/24

       We Live in a Mara-tocracy. See for yourself!

       Once upon a time, there were two beautiful sisters, born unto football
       fortunes and set upon the road to actressy glory from the same
       starting line. Though they'll forever share a name, never again shall
       their fame be equal.

     * This image may contain Clothing Apparel Ashley Benson Selena Gomez
       Human Person Swimwear Bikini Underwear and Female
       Photo: A24
       11/24

       The Cast of ‘The Bling Ring’*

       *Not true! But it was basically the same movie.

     * This image may contain Clothing Sleeve Apparel Long Sleeve Human
       Person Female and Dress
       Photo: Matt Peyton / Comedy Central
       12/24

       **So Long, Tina Fey. Welcome, Funny Replacement **

       When life takes away Liz Lemon, make lemonade. Or watch Amy Schumer.

     * Image may contain Human Person Advertisement Clothing Apparel and
       Poster
       Photo: Getty
       13/24

       Speaking of Which...****A Million Little Mileys

       Between June and September, Miley metamorphized from a sweet-drawling
       tween star into a twerking, terrorizing Terry Richardson muse. It
       happened so fast you may have missed it. Here's a primer in four acts.

     * This image may contain Book Comics Advertisement and Poster
       Illustration: Agata Nowicka
       14/24

       Best Dance Craze of 2009
       (That You Didn't Hear About Until 2013): Twerk Team

       Hundreds...of thousands... of millions of words were wasted this year
       on Miley-Cyrus-twerk think pieces. Is she profiting off of black
       culture? What are Beyoncé's thoughts? Miley's dad's thoughts? And most
       important, what is the medical explanation for Miley's lack of ass?
       This was the year white-people fondness for twerking overshadowed
       their fondness for Homeland. But all that talk without harkening back
       to the original Twerk Team? You know, the Internet-famous
       Atlanta-based twerk duo?! Well, possibly you don't. But not paying
       homage is still criminal. “We started in 2005. It was a hobby that
       turned into a business for us after we dropped our first YouTube video
       to that Soulja Boy she got a donk song,” says Antonette Willis, a.k.a.
       Lady Luscious. “Down south controls the twerking culture.” Even though
       their hobby has become a nationwide craze, they're good sports: “We
       give Miley props!” We're not so generous. Here's the make-good: For
       every hashtag, tweet, or Washington Post editorial you composed in the
       name of #mileytwerk, you owe the ladies of Twerk Team a YouTube
       viewing. Likely reaction: _Ohhhh, THAT'S what twerking
       is. _—Mark Anthony Green

     * Image may contain Human Person Gabriel García Moreno Comics Book
       Elizabeth Jagger and Manga
       Illustration: Agata Nowicka
       15/24

       ‘Girl’ of the Year: Jemima Kirke

       Why we dug our favorite Girls girl's 2013:

         1. She's the only reason left to watch the show. For reals. Never
       not sexy, strange, and affected.

         1. Her mock-twerking video went viral. Reminding us nobody does
       things better pregnantly, or post-pregnantly. Like topless photo
       shoots and wearing Stevie Nicks capes.

         1. She leapt on Jay Z at an art show. “Jay Z is ATTACKED...By A VERY
       THIRSTY White Girl... (Bey Needs To Go...HANDLE THIS CHICK)” is how
       Mediatakeout.com put it.

     * This image may contain Clothing Apparel Human Person Hat Female Girl
       Blonde Teen Kid Child Woman and Face
       Photo: Everett
       16/24

       Mother Loving of the Year

       Vera Farmiga _(Bates Motel)

       My boy likes to wear my undergarments!_ Robin Wright
       and Naomi Watts (Adore)

       Wanna swap sexy sons?

     * This image may contain Human Person Clothing and Apparel
       Photo: Everett
       17/24

       The Best 31 Minutes of the Year

       No actress took a bigger bite out of less screen time than Emma
       Watson. In 2013 she appeared briefly in one movie and for a half hour
       in another, but was the indisputable scene stealer in each. Here's to
       efficiency.

       The best 4:01 minutes of This Is the End

       Chooses to brave the apocalypse over a night at Franco's. “Back the
       fuck up!... Give me everything you have to drink!... I'm not fucking
       around!”

       The best 27:08 minutes of The Bling Ring

       Chooses prison over, like, not going to Paris's: “I'm a firm believer
       in karma, and I think this situation was attracted into my life as a
       huge learning lesson.... I want to lead a country one day, for all I
       know.”

     * This image may contain Human Person Collage Advertisement Poster
       Clothing Apparel Underwear Lingerie Hair and Skin
       18/24

       Rihanna: Queen of the Thirst Trap

       thirst trap (n) 1: the act of disingenuously posting sexy photos—while
       suggesting the subject of the photo is something else entirely—in an
       effort to elicit the lust (thirst) of followers.

       @badgalriri shares her captions:

         1. My beach is betta!!!

         1. Grey is the new black! Blondies, it's quiet for y'all! #brrr

         1. Thanks...for my new gold heart bracelet!

         1. C's on my feet!!!

     * Image may contain Cate Blanchett Face Human Person and Head
       Photo: Sony
       19/24

       Inevitable Oscar Ladies of the Year

         1. Cate Blanchett

       (Blue Jasmine)

       Nominated for: Convincing crack-up; kissing Peter Sarsgaard

       Oscar clip: “I saw you, Erica!!”

       Inadvertent sexiness: Desperate martini swilling

       May lose because: Oscar voters hate Madoff!

       May win for: Talking to self

     * Image may contain Human Person Advertisement Poster Flyer Brochure
       Paper Sunglasses Accessories and Accessory
       Photo: Everett
       20/24

       Hottest Women Left at the End of the World

       Congratulations! The world did not end in 2013, as so many movies
       predicted it might. And while each of these apocalypse flicks
       destroyed the world in its own quasi-creative manner, each held this
       truth to be self-evident: There will be one good-looking lady left
       behind to help the boys.

     * This image may contain Human Person Helmet Clothing Apparel and
       Astronaut
       Photo: Warner Bros
       21/24

       2. Sandra Bullock

       (Gravity)

       Nominated for: Space tumbling; patience with green screen

       Oscar clip: “Woof! Woof!”

       Inadvertent sexiness: Spacesuit stripdown

       May lose because: “Woof! Woof!”

       May win for: Talking to self

     * Image may contain Clothing Apparel Human Person Cecily Strong Sleeve
       and Long Sleeve
       Photo: Dana Edelson
       22/24

       The Year the Ladies Took Back _ SNL_

       _SNL'_s had a nice run these past few years—spawning more viral clips
       and characters than we ever really expect them to. (C'mon, two good
       sketches an episode is a win.) Thank the new batch of ladies taking
       center stage. After the suicide-cult departure of Bill Hader, Jason
       Sudeikis, Seth Meyers, and Fred Armisen, the show's turning its young
       female stars into the tenor-drivers of the new era.

       Cecily Strong

       See: “Weekend Update” (she's the first female anchor since Amy
       Poehler); Rachel Maddow; The Girl You Wish You Hadn't Started a
       Conversation with at a Party

       Kate McKinnon

       See: Ann Romney; making out with Louis C.K. during the “last call”
       sketch

       Vanessa Bayer

       See: Jacob the Bar Mitzvah Boy; Miley Cyrus

     * This image may contain Sarah Silverman Clothing Apparel Human and
       Person
       Photo: Getty
       23/24

       The Never-Funnier Comedy Queen of the Year

       Is there anyone better at beating up the boys than Sarah Silverman? At
       the James Franco roast...

       - On Jonah Hill:

       “Jonah actually gained fifty pounds for his role in the new Martin
       Scorsese film, because the producers wanted the character to be a
       ‘Jonah Hill type’.... But seriously, you've had such a body
       transformation in the past couple of years. You have come a long way
       from just being Sonny and Cher's daughter.”

       - On Aziz Ansari:

       “I have been a huge supporter of Aziz for years and for only the price
       of a cup of coffee.”

       - And on Franco:

       “I don't think James is necessarily gay or straight. I think he just
       literally can't open his eyes enough to see who he's fucking.”

     * This image may contain Lizzy Caplan Clothing Apparel Human Person
       Sleeve and Female
       24/24

       Eternal Crush of the Year: Lizzy Caplan

       This was the year that Lizzy C graduated from being the salty-sweet
       focal point of our Netflix account—Freaks and Geeks, True Blood, Party
       Down, Bachelorette—to a genuine TV star, thanks to Masters of Sex (a
       show about sex).

   Related Stories for GQLate NightSNLSarah SilvermanLizzy
   CaplanRihannaSandra BullockMiley CyrusEmma WatsonAnna KendrickElisabeth
   MossNews
   Read More
     * The Best Watches From the Golden Globes 2025 Red Carpet
       Style
       The Best Watches From the Golden Globes 2025 Red Carpet
       By Cam Wolf
     * Golden Globes 2025 Red Carpet: All the Best Celebrity Menswear Looks
       Live
       Style
       Golden Globes 2025 Red Carpet: All the Best Celebrity Menswear Looks
       Live
       By The Editors of GQ
     * 6 Winter Colognes To Get You Through the Cold Days Ahead
       Grooming
       6 Winter Colognes To Get You Through the Cold Days Ahead
       By Adrian Clark
     * The Best Baggy Jeans Are Taking Their Victory Lap
       GQ Recommends
       The Best Baggy Jeans Are Taking Their Victory Lap
       By Leon Hedgepeth
   GQ
   Since 1957, GQ has inspired men to look sharper and live smarter with its
   unparalleled coverage of style, culture, and beyond. From award-winning
   writing and photography to binge-ready videos to electric live events, GQ
   meets millions of modern men where they live, creating the moments that
   create conversations.
     * * * * * More From GQ

     * About GQ
     * Newsletter Sign-Up
     * Subscribe to the Magazine
     * Wardrobe Essentials
     * Gifts for Men
     * Best Beard Trimmers
     * Best Face Wash
     * Best Loafers
     * Gift Guides

   Connect

     * Manage Account
     * Careers
     * Public Relations
     * Media Kit
     * Masthead
     * RSS Feeds
     * Accessibility Help
     * Condé Nast Store
     * User Agreement
     * Privacy Policy
     * Your California Privacy Rights
     * © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. GQ may earn a portion of sales
   from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate
   Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be
   reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except
   with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices

        Select international site

   United States
     * U.K.
     * Korea
     * Germany
     * Mexico
     * Taiwan
     * Turkey
     * China
     * Italy
     * South Africa
     * Portugal
     * Brazil
     * France
     * Australia
     * Spain
     * India
     * Japan
     * Thailand
     * Middle East
