   Link: canonical
   MomJunction Logo
   [ ]
     * MomJunction Logo
     * Getting Pregnant
          * How To Get Pregnant
          * Symptoms
          * Infertility
     * Pregnancy
          * Pregnancy Week by Week
          * Food
          * Second Pregnancy
          * Safety
          * Fitness
          * Giving Birth
          * Health
          * Post Pregnancy
     * Baby
          * Breastfeeding
          * Food
          * Development
          * Sleep
          * Health
          * Safety
          * Play & Activities
     * Baby Names
     * Toddler
          * Development
          * Food
          * Sleep
          * Safety
          * Health
          * Behavior
          * Education
          * Play & Activities
          * Coloring Pages
     * Kid
          * Development
          * Food & Nutrition
          * Health & Fitness
          * Safety
          * Education
          * Behavior
          * Play & Activities
          * Style & Beauty Care
     * Teen
          * Development
          * Food & Nutrition
          * Health & Fitness
          * Safety
          * Education
          * Behavior
          * Play & Activities
          * Style & Beauty Care
     * Worksheets
     * Life Matters
          * Collaborations
          * New Parents
          * Single Parenting
          * Adoption
          * Relationships
     * Shopping
     * Tools
          * Baby Eye Color Calculator
          * Online Pregnancy Test
          * Chinese Gender Predictor
          * Implantation Calculator
          * hCG Calculator
          * Period Calculator
          * ovulation calculator
          * pregnancy due date calculator
          * Child Height Predictor
          * Pregnancy Weight Gain Calculator
          * Breast Milk Calculator
          * Child Growth Percentile Calculator
          * Baby Cost Calculator
          * BMI Calculator For Kids & Teens
          * Contraction Calculator
          * Immunization Scheduler and Chart
          * C-Section Checklist
          * Online Twin Pregnancy Quiz
          * Numerology calculator
          * Child Blood Type Calculator
          * Nakshatra Calculator
          * Diaper Bag Checklist
          * Baby Name Combiner

   Home • Baby • Health

             10 Signs Of Concussion In Babies, Causes And Treatment

   Identify the symptoms of brain injury to ensure prompt medical assistance.

   Medically reviewed by Dr. Stephen Nelson, MD, PhD, FAACPDM, FAAN, FAAP Dr.
   Stephen Nelson Dr. Stephen NelsonMD, PhD, FAACPDM, FAAN, FAAP  Specialty:
   PediatricsExperience: 15 years

   Dr. Stephen Nelson has been practicing pediatrics and pediatric neurology
   for over 15 years. He is triple Board-certified in Pediatrics, Pediatric
   Neurology, and Epilepsy. He earned his PhD in Biomedical Sciences at the
   University of California, Riverside followed by his MD at the University
   of California, San Diego.

   Read full bio of Dr. Stephen Nelson

   Written by Swati Patwal, M.Sc. (Food & Nutrition), MBA Swati Patwal swati
   patwalM.Sc. (Food & Nutrition), MBA Follow MomJunction on Linkedin
   Specialty: Food, Nutrition and HealthExperience: 10 years

   Swati Patwal is a clinical nutritionist, a Certified Diabetes Educator
   (CDE) and a toddler mom with more than a decade of experience in diverse
   fields of nutrition. She started her career as a CSR project coordinator
   for a healthy eating and active lifestyle project catering to school
   children.

   Read full bio of Swati Patwal

   Edited by Rohit Garoo, BSc, MBA Rohit Garoo rohit garooBSc, MBA Follow
   MomJunction on Linkedin Specialty: Baby Health and WellnessExperience: 9
   years

   Rohit Garoo is a writer-turned-editor with over 9 years of experience in
   content writing, editing, and content marketing. He did his bachelors in
   Science at St. Xavier's College, Hyderabad, and masters in Business
   Administration at Osmania University.

   Read full bio of Rohit Garoo

   Fact-checked by Vidya Tadapatri, MSc (Biotechnology) Vidya Tadapatri vidya
   tadapatriMSc (Biotechnology) Follow MomJunction on Linkedin Specialty:
   Health and WellnessExperience: 5 years

   Vidya did her post-graduation in Biotechnology from Osmania University,
   Hyderabad. Her interest in scientific research and writing made her pursue
   a career in writing, in which she now has over five years of experience.
   She has done certified biotechnology-related training programs under
   renowned organizations such as Centre For Cellular & Molecular Biology and
   Department of Biotechnology.

   Read full bio of Vidya Tadapatri

   Last Updated on Jan 9, 2025
   Our editorial process ensures that the information we provide is
   well-researched and reliable. Learn about our commitment to quality in our
   editorial policy.
   ✔ Research-backed

   MomJunction believes in providing reliable, research-backed information to
   you. As per our strong editorial policy requirements, we base our health
   articles on references (citations) taken from authority sites,
   international journals, and research studies. However, if you find any
   incongruencies, feel free to write to us.

   Concussion In Babies

   Image: Shutterstock

   A concussion in babies is a head injury that may affect their brain
   functioning, which may lead to various physical and cognitive symptoms.
   Before a baby arrives, most parents take all the necessary precautions to
   ensure their little one’s safety, such as baby-proofing their homes.
   However, despite all their efforts, their babies may suffer minor
   injuries. Though minor injuries cause short-term pains and often resolve
   over time, concussions could affect their growth and developmental
   outcomes.

   Altogether, one must follow important safety measures, such as keeping the
   floor dry and devoid of things that could make a baby fall. This could
   help control falls and head injuries in babies and prevent the
   consequences of an infant concussion.

   In this post, we discuss the causes, complications, and other important
   details of concussions in babies and some tips to avoid them.

   In This Article
     * Key Pointers
     * What Is A Concussion?
     * Signs And Symptoms Of Concussion In Babies
     * What Causes A Concussion In Babies?
     * How Is Concussion In Babies Diagnosed?
     * How Is Concussion In Babies Treated?
     * What Are The Long-Term Effects Of Concussion In Infants?
     * How To Prevent Concussions In Babies?
     * Frequently Asked Questions
     * Infographic: Myths About Concussion: Debunked
     * Community Experiences

Key Pointers

     * Incidents such as a rapid shock or blow, falling, or striking the head
       on anything can result in concussions in infants.
     * Common symptoms of a concussion in infants include vomiting,
       dizziness, seizures, and bleeding from the nose or ears, even if there
       are no external indications.
     * It is important to closely watch infants for concussion symptoms and
       seek prompt treatment from a pediatrician to avoid brain-related
       complications.
     * Parents can help prevent concussions in infants by baby-proofing their
       homes, using baby cribs, and car seats.

What Is A Concussion?

   According to the American Academy of Pediatrics, a concussion is a head
   injury caused by a sudden jolt or blow that could disrupt normal brain
   functioning (1). This condition is mostly benign, with the impact on brain
   function typically being temporary.

   But in some cases, a concussion or infant head injury might disrupt normal
   brain activity and make the baby unconscious. The Harvard Medical School
   grades concussion on three scales of severity described below (2):

     * Grade 1: The least severe form of concussion, when the individual’s
       brain functions return to normalcy after 15 minutes.
     * Grade 2: When the brain malfunctions and the person is confused for
       more than 15 minutes.
     * Grade 3: When the impact is so severe that the person becomes
       unconscious.

   As a concussion may be severe, you need to be alert and look out for the
   signs of concussion in a baby.

   A National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) report evaluated the percentage
   of children who had ever had symptoms of a concussion or brain injury in
   different age groups. As the graph below depicts, 6.8% of children showed
   signs and symptoms of brain injury, of which 2% were children under five.
   Also, the incidence of these injuries appears to increase with age.

   1xmomjunction placeholder

  Prevalence of concussion or brain injury symptoms in US children by age

   Source: Erectile dysfunction: Frequently asked questions; NHS

Signs And Symptoms Of Concussion In Babies

   Babies may seem confused or are unable to understand instructions
   Image: Shutterstock

   A concussion is a type of closed head injury in infants, in which the
   brain might get affected, but without any prominent marks on the skull
   (3). Thus, the signs of traumatic brain injury in infants are subtle, and
   parents may find it difficult to understand if the baby has had a
   concussion.

   Symptoms may not show immediately after the injury (4). However, you could
   look out for these:

    1. Loss of consciousness: The baby could become unconscious or slip into
       semi-consciousness due to the injury to the neurons, affecting normal
       brain function.
    2. Dizziness or body balance issues: Babies might lose balance while
       walking or crawling, indicating poor coordination in body movements.
    3. Dazed, confused, and slurred speech: The baby is unable to understand
       instructions and seems unresponsive. Older infants, who can talk will
       have trouble forming sentences and may not speak clearly.
    4. Abrupt loss of interest: The baby does not enjoy the toys, games, and
       activities, and tends to stay calm and silent most of the time.
    5. Crying excessively: A concussion could be like a dull pain, making the
       baby cry, irritable, and cranky.
    6. Vomiting and nausea: The baby is unable to digest anything and throws
       up whatever they are fed. Toddlers and older babies may complain about
       feeling sick in the stomach.
    7. Sudden change in daily routine: There is a sudden change in eating,
       sleeping, and diaper soiling patterns.
    8. Bleeding or fluid oozing from nose or ears: Blood from nose or ears
       indicates damaged blood vessels. If the baby does not have a cold but
       has a clear fluid dripping from the nose, then it could be the
       cerebrospinal fluid^iA clear, watery fluid that flows in the empty
       spaces around the brain and spinal cord. , which is leaking through
       the skull and out through the nose.
    9. Seizures: Seizures in babies include fits, convulsions^iRapid and
       involuntary muscle contractions that lead to rapid and rhythmic
       shaking of the body, especially limbs. , and episodes of loud crying
       with violent body movement.
   10. Stiffness or droopiness: The baby’s body seems stiff or droopy. The
       limbs could appear to be fixed or moving around involuntarily.

   Some of the above signs and symptoms are seen immediately due to the
   concussion. The others that either persist or arise later are referred to
   as post-concussion syndrome^iA condition where a person experiences
   dizziness, headaches, or issues with concentration and memory after a
   trauma to the brain. .

   You must also keep an eye out for other probable signs such as a wound or
   bump on the head. An infant may also touch a part of the head repeatedly,
   especially while crying, indicating pain in that part.

   Prompt pediatric consultation is advised for a head or brain injury in
   newborns to avoid complications.

What Causes A Concussion In Babies?

   Babies may fall while hopping or running and hurt themselves
   Image: Shutterstock

   A variety of reasons can lead to concussions or acquired brain injury in
   children, as they have rudimentary reflexes and cannot protect themselves.

    1. Having a fall: Babies falling from the bed, having tripped on an
       object, or falling while hopping or running, could hurt themselves and
       cry loudly. If the child is older, they would call out a parent. In
       such a case, check for bruises or lacerations as they may suggest a
       pediatric concussion. Babies can also fall from other high platforms
       like a small chair or sofa and hurt themselves.

       A study by UNICEF found that falling from ground level accounted for
       8% of fatal falls (5). The risk can increase substantially when an
       older infant tries to run, hop, or jump over an obstacle.

   Julia, a mom of four talks about an incident when she thought that her son
   might have had a concussion. She recalls, “ I know we had a guardian angel
   with us at that moment because somehow Truman fell out (of the rocker
   chair) and remained on the landing instead of rolling all the way down the
   rest of the stairs, and since the whole carrier fell out of my hand he
   didn’t free fall from my waist but instead tipped out of the entire seat
   onto his little forehead.” It was following this moment that Julia thought
   that her son might have a fall-induced concussion (i).

    2. When an object falls on the head: A baby could playfully yank the wire
       of a table lamp, or an older infant could shake a big object, making
       it fall on their head.
    3. Baby hits the head to an object: Babies can hit their head to an
       object while crawling or walking. For example, older infants who crawl
       at a faster pace may not notice objects in front of them or walk
       head-first into something.
    4. Vehicle accident: Babies are at a greater risk of head injuries in car
       crashes because their heads are larger in proportion to their bodies
       (6). They can also sustain a concussion due to a fall from a
       two-wheeler or when riding a tricycle or bicycle.

   As you may have noticed, simple, everyday activities can be a cause for
   concussion in babies. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends, as a
   safety measure, that you take your baby to a doctor if there is any injury
   to the head and to check for post-concussion syndrome in babies.

How Is Concussion In Babies Diagnosed?

   Doctors check for signs of brain trauma such as a bruise or swelling on
   the head
   Image: iStock

   Only a medical practitioner can make a conclusive diagnosis and tell if
   the baby has a concussion or an intracranial hemorrhage. Here is how the
   condition diagnosed:

  1. Check for the physical signs

     * The doctor checks for external signs of brain trauma such as a bruise,
       wound, or swelling on the head. Further checks would be made to find
       any swelling in the fontanelles, the soft membranous tissue that
       connects the skull bones of an infant.
     * Injured blood vessels rupture internally and bleed, which is seen on
       the skin as a blue-black patch (bruises).
     * In severe concussions, the baby may develop blue or black skin
       discolorations around the eyes or behind the ears.
     * An unbalanced dilation of the pupils may occur, where one eye is
       permanently dilated while the other is normal. Both eyes may stay
       dilated with wide-open pupils that do not respond to light. The doctor
       would check for such dilations and abnormalities.

  2. Basic medical tests

     * A concussion can cause a malfunction in motor skills, and a doctor
       tests these skills to determine the damage.
     * In the case of suspected malfunctioning, the doctor could conduct
       basic tests to discern if the baby’s vision and hearing are affected.
       For this, the doctor would check the movement of the baby’s head in
       response to a sound or baby’s ability to spot a moving object in
       peripheral vision.
     * In the case of older infants, the doctor would ask the infant to touch
       the nose, throw a ball, walk in a straight line, or something similar.

  3. Imaging tests

     * If the test results are inconclusive or the symptoms of concussion are
       severe, then the doctor would conduct imaging tests to assess the
       skull.
     * An x-ray may be the first choice since it is quick to identify an
       infant skull fracture.
     * Scans such as CT and MRI can be conducted in more severe cases as they
       provide a three-dimensional image of the baby’s skull.

   Once the doctor confirms the concussion, the treatment begins immediately.

How Is Concussion In Babies Treated?

   Keep babies from vigorous physical activities as the brain needs rest
   Image: Shutterstock

   The treatment of concussion will depend on the extent of the injury. The
   treatment could include:

     * Rest: Rest is the most important treatment since it is non-invasive,
       baby-safe, and also ideal for a non-open wound condition, such as a
       concussion (7). The doctor would advise you to keep the baby away from
       vigorous physical activities involving cognitive skills as the brain
       needs rest.
     * Topical ointment: If the baby has a bruise or small wound at the point
       of impact, then the doctor could prescribe a topical ointment
       primarily to prevent infection and alleviate the pain.
   protip_icon Quick tip
   Your baby should play quietly for at least 24 hours after the injury and
   screen time should be limited (13).

   Some home remedies for pain, such as an ice pack might help the infant
   feel better, but do not force it if the baby is not comfortable with the
   cold sensation.

What Are The Long-Term Effects Of Concussion In Infants?

   Concussions heal over time and do not usually cause any serious health
   problems or brain damage in infants.

   However, it is wise to get a concussion checked by a medical professional
   to know the extent of the damage. Severe head injuries could lead to:

    1. Loss of developmental milestones: If the injury alters the brain motor
       skills, the baby might lose out on some achieved milestones. An infant
       may reach a milestone, only to forget it in a few days. You may notice
       a complete regression in skills and abilities.
    2. Permanent problems while feeding or sleeping: The baby is unable to
       sleep or eat properly and has a changed regime. In severe cases of
       trauma, the infant may develop insomnia, which is an inability to fall
       asleep (8).
    3. Vertigo: Vertigo is the dizzy feeling that occurs in bouts or is
       triggered by a random stimulus. The condition can persist forever,
       returning in intervals of days or weeks. Vertigo caused by a
       concussion is referred to as posttraumatic vertigo^iA condition where
       a person experiences dizziness and other symptoms of vertigo after a
       severe or blunt injury to the head or neck. (9).
    4. Pause in head circumference growth: Some cases of severe concussion
       could pause the growth in the baby’s head circumference for a few
       weeks (10). The head growth resumes weeks later, but head growth could
       lag in comparison to the rest of the body.
    5. Poor concentration and cognitive disability: Older infants may have
       trouble picking up new words. They might also lose concentration, even
       during activities they like. If the problem persists, then it may
       cause severe cognitive impairment^iA condition where a person
       experiences a decline in mental abilities like remembering, learning,
       concentrating, and decision-making. and intellectual disabilities.

   Pediatricians may suggest regular check-ups to track the baby’s recovery
   and ensure they are reaching developmental milestones. Parents should
   watch for any ongoing symptoms and keep open communication with healthcare
   providers about their child’s progress.

   Most concussions do not cause any long-term effects. However, you can
   minimize the risk of both short and long-term problems by preventing
   concussions.

How To Prevent Concussions In Babies?

   You can mitigate the risk of concussions or mild traumatic brain injury in
   infants by keeping your baby safe at home.

   Here are a few precautions you can take (11):

    1. Baby-proof your house: Tie the wires high above and remove elevated
       objects that can cause injury when they fall over the head. Cover all
       the sharp edges of furniture and remove items such as a carpet or
       doormat that the baby could trip on.
    2. Never leave an infant unattended: Babies tend to be fidgety and love
       to hold and move things, but it must be under adult supervision. Older
       infants should also play under adult supervision, especially while
       playing with things such as a football or swing and slides. Parents
       can greatly lower the risk of head injuries by closely supervising
       their children and creating safe play areas.
   Babies love to hold and move things, so they must be under adult
   supervision
   Image: iStock
    3. Get a crib for the baby: Babies must sleep in cribs that are
       specifically designed for their age. Do not let your baby sleep alone
       on regular beds, as babies tend to roll off the edges.
   protip_icon Point to consider
   Install changing tables with 2-inch guardrails to avoid accidental falls
   (14).
    4. Get baby car seat: Buy an infant safety harness for your baby when
       traveling in a car, even for short distances. Choose safety harnesses
       certified by reputable agencies or organizations. Choose a five-point
       harness over a three-point one. A five-point harness straps the infant
       to the seat at five points and has two shoulder points, two hip
       points, and one between the legs. The three-point harness leaves out
       the two hip points. Babies should be latched facing the rear of the
       car as it prevents a sharp shock to the neck and head in case of a
       forward collision.
   protip_icon Quick tip
   You may use Baby head protection accessories that are available to protect
   them from bumps and bruises.

Frequently Asked Questions

   1. For how long should you keep the baby awake after they hit their head?

   You can let your baby sleep if they wish to after hitting their head.
   Nevertheless, keep them near to you. Wake them up after two hours to know
   if they are alert and active (12). Call medical services if you cannot
   wake them up (13).

   2. How do I test for a concussion at home?

   You should get your child examined by a doctor if you have the slightest
   doubt because babies cannot verbalize how they feel. You should visit the
   doctor if you find them uncomfortable or less active than usual.

   3. How to know if my baby is okay after they fall off the couch?

   Remain calm and observe the baby’s behavior. If they are alert and crying
   loudly, it is a normal reaction. In such cases, gently pick the baby and
   console them (15). Take care of minor injuries and try to lighten their
   mood. However, if they vomit, show signs of extreme sleepiness, or there
   is blood discharge from the ears or nose, promptly contact a doctor.

   4. Can my baby get a concussion from falling backwards?

   It is rare to get a concussion by banging their head against a wall,
   hitting their head on their crib, or falling backward from a standing
   position (16) (18). However, prompt pediatric evaluation is necessary if
   your baby has anything more than a light bump in the affected area or if
   you notice other signs of concussion in a baby, such as vomiting,
   dizziness, or stumbling (19).

   5. Can my baby get brain damage if they fall?

   In children less than six years of age, a fall from a great height, such
   as from a wall or a window in the attic, can cause significant brain
   damage. In some cases, there may be skull fracture as well (17). Falls
   from lower heights still require medical attention, though they may not
   cause brain damage (18).

   A baby concussion is a brain injury that can be assessed on three severity
   scales. While most concussions are grade 1 or 2, if your infant sustains a
   grade 3 injury, it may impact their brain functioning as well as their
   growth and development. Blood from the nose or ears, excessive crying,
   vomiting, dizziness, and other symptoms may develop. Thus, if the baby has
   recently suffered a head injury, it is advisable to have them inspected by
   a doctor. Moreover, taking simple precautions such as baby-proofing the
   house, using a baby car seat, and a crib could effectively prevent
   concussions in babies.

Infographic: Myths About Concussion: Debunked

   Witnessing concussions in babies is a scary event. Moreover, with the
   plethora of myths surrounding concussions, you may end up making more
   mistakes than taking the necessary steps to care for the child. Check this
   infographic where we bust the most common myths surrounding concussions in
   babies.
   common myths about concussion (infographic)

   Illustration: Momjunction Design Team

   IFrame
   Learn about the signs and symptoms of concussions in children. Understand
   what to look for and how to help.

   IFrame

  Personal Experience: Source

   MomJunction articles include first-hand experiences to provide you with
   better insights through real-life narratives. Here are the sources of
   personal accounts referenced in this article.

   i. The first of
   many;https://julia-transition.blogspot.com/2010/04/first-of-many.html

  References

   MomJunction's articles are written after analyzing the research works of
   expert authors and institutions. Our references consist of resources
   established by authorities in their respective fields. You can learn more
   about the authenticity of the information we present in our editorial
   policy.

   1. Concussions; Healthy Children; American Academy of Pediatrics
   2. Grading Scale for Cerebral Concussions.
   https://www.barrowneuro.org/for-physicians-researchers/education/grand-rounds-publications-media/barrow-quarterly/volume-16-no-1-2000/grading-scale-for-cerebral-concussions/
   3. Concussion; Medline Plus; U.S National Library of Medicine
   4. Signs and symptoms of concussion; The University of Queensland,
   Australia
   5. Falls, World Report on Child Injury Prevention; National Centers For
   Biotechnology Information
   6. Car Seat Safety: Newborn to 2 Years; Children’s Hospital of
   Philadelphia
   7. Heads Up: CDC’s New Guidelines if Your Child Suffers from a Concussion;
   Cleveland Clinic
   8. Daniel H. Daneshvar et al.; Long Term Consequences: Effects on Normal
   Development Profile after Concussion; National Center for Biotechnology
   Information (2011)
   9. Fife TD and Giza C; Posttraumatic vertigo and dizziness; National
   Center For Biotechnology Information (2013)
   10. Concussion Symptoms in Children & Babies; Brainline
   11. Preventing head injuries in children; Medline Plus; U.S National
   Library of Medicine
   12. Head Injury; Seattle Children
   13. Infant and Toddler Concussion Guide; Benioff Children’s Hospital
   14. Household Safety: Preventing Injuries From Falling, Climbing, and
   Grabbing; Nemours Children’s Health
   15. How to Help Babies and Toddlers When They Fall?; Pathways
   16. Spotting Concussions in Babies and Toddlers; UNC Health Talk
   17. Juliet Haarbauer-Krupa, Tadesse Haileyesus, Julie Gilchrist, Karin A.
   Mack, Caitlin S. Law, and Andrew Joseph; Fall-related traumatic brain
   injury in children ages 0–4 years; National Library of Medicine
   18. P Burrows, et al.;Head injury from falls in children younger than
   6 years of age; National Library of Medicine
   19. Head Injury in Children: How to Know If It’s Minor or Serious; Healthy
   Children

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

Community Experiences

   Join the conversation and become a part of our nurturing community! Share
   your stories, experiences, and insights to connect with fellow parents.

   [ ] Reviewer [ ] Author [ ] Editor [ ] Fact Checker
   Dr. Stephen Nelson
   Dr. Stephen NelsonMD, PhD, FAACPDM, FAAN, FAAP
   Dr. Stephen Nelson has been practicing pediatrics and pediatric neurology
   for over 15 years. He is triple Board-certified in Pediatrics, Pediatric
   Neurology, and Epilepsy. He earned his PhD in Biomedical Sciences at the
   University of California, Riverside followed by his MD at the University
   of California, San Diego.

   Read full bio of Dr. Stephen Nelson
   Swati Patwal
   Swati PatwalM.Sc. (Food & Nutrition), MBA
   Follow MomJunction on Linkedin
   Swati Patwal is a clinical nutritionist, a Certified Diabetes Educator
   (CDE) and a toddler mom with more than a decade of experience in diverse
   fields of nutrition. She started her career as a CSR project coordinator
   for a healthy eating and active lifestyle project catering to school
   children.

   Read full bio of Swati Patwal
   Rohit Garoo
   Rohit GarooBSc, MBA
   linkedin_icon
   Rohit Garoo is a writer-turned-editor with over 9 years of experience in
   content writing, editing, and content marketing. He did his bachelors in
   Science at St. Xavier's College, Hyderabad, and masters in Business
   Administration at Osmania University.

   Read full bio of Rohit Garoo
   Vidya Tadapatri
   Vidya TadapatriMSc (Biotechnology)
   Follow MomJunction on Linkedin
   Vidya did her post-graduation in Biotechnology from Osmania University,
   Hyderabad. Her interest in scientific research and writing made her pursue
   a career in writing, in which she now has over five years of experience.
   She has done certified biotechnology-related training programs under
   renowned organizations such as Centre For Cellular & Molecular Biology and
   Department of Biotechnology.

   Read full bio of Vidya Tadapatri
   Related Articles
     * Concussion In Babies
       6 Causes Of Watery Eyes In Babies, Treatment And Remedies
     * Concussion In Babies
       Acrocyanosis In Newborn: Causes, Symptoms And Treatment
     * Concussion In Babies
       Umbilical Granuloma In Babies: Causes, Treatment, And Care
     * Concussion In Babies
       Iron Deficiency Anemia In Babies: 5 Causes And 9 Symptoms
     * Concussion In Babies
       Urate Crystals In Baby's Diaper: Causes And Prevention
     * Concussion In Babies
       7 Benefits Of Breast Milk Bath For Babies And How To Do It
     * Concussion In Babies
       Infant Tylenol: Recommended Dosage And Safety
     * Concussion In Babies
       17 Causes Of Nausea In Children, Treatment And Home Remedies
     * Concussion In Babies
       11 Reasons Why Baby Refuses To Eat And How To Help Them
   Latest Articles
     * Signs Of Infant Skull Fracture
       Infant Skull Fracture: Types, Signs, Diagnosis, And Treatment
     * A person checking a baby
       Low Temperature In Babies: Causes, Treatment & When To Worry
     * Causes Of Silent Reflux In Babies
       Silent Reflux In Babies: Signs, Causes, Remedies & Treatment
     * Cold During Pregnancy - Causes, Symptoms, Treatments & Prevention
       Cold During Pregnancy: Causes, Symptoms, Treatments And Prevention
     * Vaginal Dryness During Pregnancy
       Vaginal Dryness During Pregnancy: Causes, Symptoms And Treatment
     * Baby With Dry Scalp And Home Remedies
       Baby Dry Scalp: Causes, Home Remedies And Treatment 
     * A woman is suffering from hypokalemia during pregnancy
       Low Potassium (Hypokalemia) In Pregnancy: Causes & Treatment
     * Top Gynecologists In Delhi
       15 Best Gynecologists In Delhi In 2025
     * Baby Suffering From Dravet Syndrome
       Dravet Syndrome In Babies: Causes, Symptoms And Treatment
     * Is It Normal To Dream During The First Trimester?
       Is It Normal To Dream During The First Trimester?
     * Baby belly button bleeding
       Newborn Belly Button Bleeding: What’s Normal & When To Worry
     * A Mother Feeding Breastmilk
       Baby Choking On Breastmilk: Why Does It Happen & What To Do?
     * About Us
     * Advertise with Us
     * Contact Us
     * Join our Medical Board
     * Editorial Policy
     * Image Usage Policy
     * Affiliate Disclosure
     * Privacy Policy
     * Terms of Use
     * Advertising Policy
     * Cookie Policy
     * Community Guidelines
   facebook_icon pintrest_icon twitter_icon instagram_icon Follow MomJunction
   on YouTube Follow MomJunction on MSN
   Our Sister Sites
     * StyleCraze
     * The Bridal Box
     * Skinkraft
     * Vedix

   © 2011 - 2025 MomJunction Private Limited.

   MomJunction provides content for informational purposes only. It is not
   intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or
   treatment. Click here for additional information.
